Book T - The Tarot 
Comprising Manuscripts N, O, P, Q, R, 
and an Unlettered Theoricus 
Adeptus Minor Instruction 


BlOS: 


MacGregor Mathers and Harriet Felkin 


Book T 


A Description of the Cards of the Tarot with their 
Attributions; 
Including a Method of Divination by Their Use 


HRU 


THE GREAT ANGEL 


is set over the operations of the Secret Wisdom 


"WHAT thou seest, write in a book, and send it 
unto the Seven Abodes which be in Aushiah." 


"And I saw in the Right Hand of Him that Sate upon 
the Throne a Book, sealed with Seven Seals." 


"Who is worthy to open the book, and to loose the Seals thereof?’ 


pg. 1 


Book T 


Samuel Liddell Macgregor Mathers 


pg. 2 


Book T 


17 


18 


The 
The 
The 
The 
The 


The 
The 
The 


The 


The 
The 
The 


The 


The 
The 
The 


The 


The 


The Titles of the Symbols 


Card 

Ace of Wands 
Ace of Cups 
Ace of Swords 
Ace of Pentacles 


Knight of Wands 


Queen of Wands 
King of Wands 
Knave of Wands 


Knight of Cups 


Queen of Cups 
King of Cups 
Knave of Cups 


Knight of Swords 


Queen of Swords 
King of Swords 
Knave of Swords 


Knight of 
Pentacles 


Queen of 
Pentacles 


is called the Root of the Powers of Fire. 
is called the Root of the Powers of Water. 
is called the Root of the Powers of Air. 
is called the Root of the Powers of Earth. 


is "The Lord of the Flame and Lighting: the 
King of the Spirits of Fire." 


is "The Queen of the Thrones of Flame." 
is "The Prince of the Chariot of Fire." 


is "The Princess of the Shining Flame: the Rose 
of the Palace of Fire." 


is "The Lord of the Waves and the Waters: the 
King of the Hosts of the Sea." 


is "The Queen of the Thrones of the Waters." 
is "The Prince of the Chariot of the Waters." 


is "The Princess of the Waters: the Lotus of the 
Palace of the Floods." 


is "The Lord of the Wind and the Breezes: the 
King of the Spirits of Air." 


is "The Queen of the Thrones of Air." 
is "The Prince of the Chariot of the Winds." 


is "The Princess of the Rushing Winds: the 
Lotus of the Palace of Air." 


is "The Lord of the Wide and Fertile Land: the 
King of the Spirits of Earth." 


is "The Queen of the Thrones of Earth." 


pg. 3 


Book T 


19 
20 


NO. 


21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29 
30 
31 
32 
33 
34 
35 
36 
3T 
38 
39 
40 
41 
42 


The King ofPentacles is "The Prince of the Chariot of Earth." 


The Knave of 


Pentacles 


Card 

5 of Wands 

6 of Wands 

7 of Wands 

8 of Pentacles 
9 of Pentacles 
10 of Pentacles 
2 of Swords 

3 of Swords 
4 of Swords 

5 of Cups 

6 of Cups 

7 of Cups 

8 of Wands 

9 of Wands 
10 of Wands 
2 of Pentacles 
3 of Pentacles 
4 of Pentacles 
5 of Swords 
6 of Swords 

7 of Swords 

8 of Cups 


is "The Princess of the Echoing Hills: the Rose 
of the Palace of Earth." 


Lord of 

Strife 

Victory 

Valour 
Prudence 
Material Gain 
Wealth 

Peace restored 
Sorrow 

Rest from Strife 
Loss in Pleasure 


Pleasure 


Illusionary Success 


Swiftness 
Great Strength 


Oppression 


Harmonious Change 


Material Works 
Earthly Power 
Defeat 

Earned Success 


Unstable Effort 


Abandoned Success 


Decan 
Saturn 
Jupiter 
Mars 
Sun 
Venus 
Mercury 
Moon 
Saturn 
Jupiter 
Mars 
Sun 
Venus 
Mercury 
Moon 
Saturn 
Jupiter 
Mars 
Sun 
Venus 
Mercury 
Moon 


Saturn 


In 

Leo 

Leo 

Leo 

Virgo 
Virgo 
Virgo 
Libra 
Libra 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Scorpio 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Sagittarius 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Capricorn 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 
Aquarius 
Aquarius 


Pisces 


pg. 4 


Book T 


43 
44 
45 
46 
47 
48 
49 
50 
51 
52 
53 
54 
55 
56 


NO. 


57 


58 
59 


60 


61 


62 
63 


9 of Cups 

10 of Cups 

2 of Wands 

3 of Wands 

4 of Wands 

5 of Pentacles 
6 of Pentacles 
7 of Pentacles 
8 of Swords 
9 of Swords 
10 of Swords 
2 of Cups 

3 of Cups 

4 of Cups 


Card 


The Foolish Man 


The Magician 


The High 
Priestess 


The Empress 


The Emperor 


The Hierophant 


The Lovers 


Material Happiness 
Perfected Success 
Dominion 
Established Strength 
Perfected Work 
Material Trouble 
Material Success 
Success unfulfilled 
Shortened Force 
Despair and Cruelty 
Ruin 

Love 

Abundance 


Blended Pleasure 


The Twenty-Two Keys of 
the Book 


The Spirit of GR:Alpha- 
iota-theta-eta-rho 


The Magus of Power 


The Priestess of the 
Silver Star 


The Daughter of the 
Mighty Ones 


Sun of the Morning, 
chief among the Mighty 


The Magus of the Eternal 
The Children of the 


Jupiter 
Mars 
Mars 
Sun 
Venus 
Mercury 
Moon 
Saturn 
Jupiter 
Mars 
Sun 
Venus 
Mercury 


Moon 


Letter 
Aleph 


Bet 


Gimel 


Dalet 


Heh 


Vau 


Zain 


Pisces 
Pisces 
Aries 
Aries 
Aries 
Taurus 
Taurus 
Taurus 
Gemini 
Gemini 
Gemini 
Cancer 
Cancer 


Cancer 


Attribution 
Air 


Mercury 


Moon 


Venus 


Aries 


Taurus 


Gemini 


pg. 5 


Book T 


64 


65 


66 


67 


68 


69 


70 


71 


T2 


73 


74 


75 


The Chariot 


Fortitude 


The Hermit 


The Wheel 


Justice 


The Hanged Man 


Death 


Temperance 


The Devil 


The Blasted 
Tower 


The Star 


The Moon 


Voice; the Oracles of the 
Mighty Gods 


The Child of the Powers Chet 
of the Waters; the Lord 
of the Triumph of Light 


The Daughter of the Tet 
Flaming Sword 


The Magus ofthe Voice Yod 
of Power, the Prophet of 
the Eternal 


The Lord of the of Fate Koph 
Forces of Life 


The Daughter of the Lamed 
Lords of Truth: the Ruler 
of the Balance 


The Spirit of the Mighty Mem 
Waters 


The Child of the Great Nun 
Transformers: the Lord of 
the Gates of Death 


The Daughter of the Samekh 
Reconcilers: the Bringer- 
Forth of life 


The Lord of the Gates of Ayin 
Matter: the Child of the 
Forces of Time 


The Lord of the Hosts of Peh 
the Mighty 


The Daughter of the Tzaddi 
Firmament, the dweller 
between the Waters 


The Ruler of Flux and Qof 
Reflux: the Child of the 


Cancer 


Leo 


Virgo 


Jupiter 


Libra 


Water 


Scorpio 


Sagittarius 


Capricorn 


Mars 


Aquarius 


Pisces 


pg. 6 


Book T 


Sons of the Mighty 


76 The Sun The Lord of the Fire of Resh 
the World 


77 The Judgment The Spirit of the Primal Shin 
Fire 

78 The Universe The Great One of the Taw 
Night of Time 


Sun 


Spirit and Fire 


Earth and 
Saturn 


Such are the Titles of the Abodes or Atouts of Thooth; of the Mansions of the 


House of my FATHER. 


pg. 7 


Book T 


The Descriptions of the Seventy-Eight Symbols 


of this Book T; together with their meanings. 


pg. 8 


Book T 


OF THE ACES 


FIRST in order and importance are the Four Aces, representing the Force of the 
Spirit, acting in, and binding together, the Four Scales of each Element: and 
answering to the Dominion of the Letters of the Name in the Kether of each. They 
represent the Radical Forces. 


The Four Aces are said to be placed on the North Pole of the Universe wherein 
they revolve, governing its revolution; and ruling as the connecting link between 
Yetzirah and the Material Plane or Universe. 


I. THE ROOT OF THE POWERS OF FIRE 


Ace of Wands 


A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand, issuing from clouds, and grasping a heavy 
club, which has three branches in the colours, and with the sigils, of the scales. 
The Right-and Left-hand branches end respectively in three Flames, and the 
Centre one in four Flames: thus yielding Ten: the Number of the Sephiroth. Two- 
and-twenty leaping Flames, or Yodh, surround it, answering to the Paths; of these, 
three fall below the Right branch for Aleph, Men, and Shin, seven above the 
Central branch for the double letters; and between it and that of the Right twelve: 
six above and six below about the Left-hand branch. The whole is a great and 
flaming Torch. It symbolizes Force --- strength, rush, vigour, energy, and it 
governs, according to its nature, various works and questions. 


It implies Natural, as opposed to Invoked, Force. 
II. THE ROOT OF THE POWERS OF THE WATERS 


Ace of Cups or Chalices 


A WHITE Radiant Angelic Hand, issuing from clouds, and supporting on the 
palm thereof a cup, resembling that of the Stolistes. 


From it rises a fountain of clear and glistening water: and sprays falling on all 
sides into clear calm water below, in which grow Lotuses and Water-lilies. The 


great Letter of the Supernal Mother is traced in the spray of the Fountain. 


It symbolizes Fertility --- productiveness, beauty, pleasure, happiness, etc. 


pg. 9 


Book T 


HI. THE ROOT OF THE POWERS OF THE AIR 


Ace of Swords 


A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand, issuing from clouds, and grasping the hilt of 
a sword, which supports a White Radiant Celestial Crown; from which depend, on 
the right, the olive branch of Peace; and on the left, the palm branch of suffering. 


Six Vaus fall from its point. It symbolizes "Invoked," as contrasted with Natural 
Force: for it is the Invocation of the Sword. Raised upward, it invokes the Divine 
crown of Spiritual Brightness, but reversed it is the Invocation of Demonic Force; 
and becomes a fearfully evil symbol. It represents, therefore, very great power for 
good or evil, but invoked; and it also represents whirling Force, and strength 
through trouble. It is the affirmation of Justice upholding Divine Authority; and it 
may become the Sword of Wrath, Punishment, and Affliction. 


IV. THE ROOT OF THE POWERS OF THE EARTH 


Ace of Pentacles 


A WHITE Radiant Angelic Hand, holding a branch of a Rose Tree, whereon is a 
large Pentacle, formed of Five concentric circles. The Innermost Circle is white, 
charged with a red Greek Cross. From this White Centre, Twelve Rays, also 
white, issue: these terminate at the circumference, making the whole something 
like an Astrological figure of the Heavens. 


It is surmounted by a small circle, above which is a large white Maltese Cross, 
and with two white wings. 


Four Crosses and two buds are shewn. The Hand issueth from the Clouds as in the 
other three cases. 


It represents materiality in all senses, good and evil: and is, therefore, in a sense, 
illusionary: it shows material gain, labour, power, wealth, etc. 


pg. 10 


Book T 


The Sixteen, or Royal, Cards 
The Four Kings 


THE Four Kings, or "Figures mounted on steeds," represent the Yodh forces of 
the Name in each Suit: the Radix, Father and commencement of Material Forces, 
a force in which all the others are implied, and of which they form the 
development and completion. A force swift and violent in its action, but whose 
effect soon passes away, and therefore symbolized by a Figure on a Steed riding 
swiftly, and clothed in complete Armour. 


Therefore is the knowledge of the scale of the King so necessary for the 
commencement of all magical working. 


The Four Queens 


are seated upon Thrones; representing the Forces of the He of the Name in each 
suit; the Mother and bringer-forth of Material Forces: a force which develops and 
realizes that of the King: a force steady and unshaken, but not rapid, though 
enduring. It is therefore symbolized by a Figure seated upon a Throne: but also 
clothed in Armour. 


The Four Princes 


These Princes are Figures seated in Chariots, and thus borne forward. They 
represent the Vau Forces of the Name in each suit: the Mighty Son of the King 
and Queen, who realizes the influence of both scales of Force. A Prince, the son 
of a King and Queen, yet a Prince of Princes, and a King of Kings: an Emperor 
whose effect is at once rapid (though not so swift as that of the Queen) and 
enduring. It is, therefore, symbolized by a Figure borne in a Chariot, and clothed 
in Armour. Yet is his power vain and illusionary, unless set in Motion by his 
Father and Mother. 


The Four Princesses 


are the Knaves of the Tarot Pack; The Four Princesses or figures of Amazons, 
standing firmly of themselves: neither riding upon Horses, nor seated upon 
Thrones, nor borne in Chariots. They represent the forces of the He final of the 
Name in each suit, completing the Influences of the other scales: The mighty and 
potent daughter of a King and Queen: a Princess powerful and terrible: a Queen of 


pg. 11 


Book T 


Queens --- an Empress --- whose effect combines those of the King, Queen, and 
Prince, at once violent and permanent; therefore symbolized by a Figure standing 
firmly by itself, only partially draped, and having but little Armour; yet her power 
existeth not, save by reason of the others: and then indeed it is mighty and terrible 
materially, and is the Throne of the Forces of the Spirit. 


Woe unto whomsoever shall make war upon her, when thus established! 


The Spheres of Influence of the Court Cards of the Tarot Pack 


THE Princesses rule the Four Parts of the Celestial Heavens which lie around the 
north Pole, and above the respective Cherubic Signs of the Zodiac, and they form 
the Thrones of the Powers of the Four Aces. 

The twelve cards, the Four Kings, Queens and Princes rule the dominion of the 
Celestial Heavens, between the realm of the Four Princesses and the Zodiac, as is 
hereafter shewn. And they, as it were, link together the signs. 


V. The Lord of the Flame and the Lightning; The King of the Spirits 
of Fire 


Knight of Wands 


A WINGED Warrior riding upon a black horse with flaming mane and tail: the 
horse itself is not winged. The rider wears a winged helmet (like the old 
Scandinavian and Gaulish helmet) with a Rayed Crown, a corslet of scale-mail 
and buskins of the same, and a flowing scarlet mantle. Above his helmet, upon his 
curass, and on the shoulder-pieces and buskins, he wears as a crest a winged black 
horse's head. He grasps a club with flaming ends, somewhat similar to that in the 
symbol of the Ace of Wands, but not so heavy, and also the sigil of his scale is 
shown; beneath the rushing feet of his steed are waving flames and fire. He is 
active --- generous --- fierce --- sudden --- impetuous. 


If ill dignified, he is evil-minded --- cruel --- bigoted --- brutal. He rules the 
celestial heavens from above the Twentieth Degree of Scorpio to the First Two 
Decans of Sagittarius: and this includes a part of the Constellation Hercules. 
(Hercules is always represented with a Club.) 


Fire of Fire 
King of the Salamanders. 


pg. 12 


Book T 


VI. The Queen of the Thrones of Flame 


Queen of Wands 


A CROWNED queen with long red-golden hair, seated upon a Throne, with 
steady flames beneath. She wears a corslet and buskins of scale-mail, which latter 
her robe discloses. Her arms are almost bare. On cuirass and buskins are leopard's 
heads winged, and the same symbol surmounteth her crown. At her side is a 
couchant leopard on which her hands rest. She bears a long wand with a very 
heavy conical head. The face is beautiful and resolute. 


Adaptability, steady force applied to an object, steady rule, great attractive power, 
power of command, yet liked notwithstanding. Kind and generous when not 
opposed. 


If ill dignified, obstinate, revengeful, domineering, tyrannical, and apt to turn 
against another without a cause. 


She rules the heavens from above the last Decan of Pisces to above the 20 Degree 
of Aries: including thus a part of Andromeda. 


Water of Fire 
Queen of the Salamanders. 


VII. The Prince of the Chariot of Fire 


King of Wands 


A KINGLY Figure with a golden, winged crown, seated on a chariot. He has 
large white wings. One wheel of his chariot is shewn. He wears corslet and 
buskins of scale armour decorated with a winged lion's head, which symbol also 
surmounts his crown. His chariot is drawn by a lion. His arms are bare, save for 
the shoulder-pieces of the corslet, and he bears a torch or fire-wand, somewhat 
similar to that of the Zelator Adeptus Minor. Beneath the chariot are flames, some 
waved, some salient. 


Swift, strong, hasty; rather violent, yet just and generous; noble and scorning 
meanness. 


If ill dignified --- cruel, intolerant, prejudiced and ill natured. 


pg. 13 


Book T 


He rules the heavens from above the last Decan of Cancer to the second Decan of 
Leo; hence he includes most of Leo Minor. 


Air of Fire 
Prince and Emperor of Salamanders. 


VIII. The Princess of the Shining Flame; The Rose of the Palace of 
Fire 


Knave of Wands 


A VERY strong and beautiful woman with flowing red-gold hair, attired like an 
Amazon. Her shoulders, arms, bosom and knees are bare. She wears a short kilt 
reaching to the knee. Round her waist is a broad belt of scale-mail; narrow at the 
sides; broader in front and back; and having a winged tiger's head in front. She 
wears a Corinthian-shaped helmet and crown with a long plume. It also is 
surmounted by a tiger's head, and the same symbol forms the buckle of her scale- 
mail buskins. A mantle lined with tiger's skin falls back from her shoulders. Her 
right hand rests on a small golden or brazen altar ornamented with ram's heads 
and with Flames of Fire leaping from it. Her left hand leans on a long and heavy 
club, swelling at the lower end, where the sigil is placed; and it has flames of fire 
leaping from it the whole way down; but the flames are ascending. This club or 
torch is much longer than that carried by the King or Queen. Beneath her firmly 
placed feet are leaping Flames of Fire. 


Brilliance, courage, beauty, force, sudden in anger or love, desire of power, 
enthusiasm, revenge. 


If ill dignified, she is superficial, theatrical, cruel, unstable, domineering. 
She rules the heavens over one quadrant of the portion around the North Pole. 
Earth of Fire 


Princess and Empress of the Salamanders. 
Throne of the Ace of Wands. 


IX. The Lord of the Waves and the Waters; The King of the Hosts of 
the Sea 


Knight of Cups 


pg. 14 


Book T 


A BEAUTIFUL, winged, youthful Warrior with flying hair, riding upon a white 
horse, which latter is not winged. His general equipment is similar to that of the 
Knight of Wands, but upon his helmet, cuirass and buskins is a peacock with 
opened wings. He holds a cup in his hand, bearing the sigil of the scale. Beneath 
his horse's feet is the sea. From the cup issues a crab. 


Graceful, poetic, Venusian, indolent, but enthusiastic if roused. 
Ill dignified, he is sensual, idle and untruthful. 


He rules the heavens from above 20 Degree of Aquarius to 20 Degree of Pisces, 
thus including the greater part of Pegasus. 


Fire of Water 
King of Undines and Nymphs. 


X. The Queen of the Thrones of the Waters 


Queen of Cups 


A VERY beautiful fair woman like a crowned Queen, seated upon a throne, 
beneath which is flowing water wherein Lotuses are seen. Her general dress is 
similar to that of the Queen of Wands, but upon her crown, cuirass and buskins is 
seen an Ibis with opened wings, and beside her is the same bird, whereon her 
hand rests. She holds a cup, wherefrom a crayfish issues. Her face is dreamy. She 
holds a lotus in the hand upon the Ibis. 


She is imaginative, poetic, kind, yet not willing to take much trouble for another. 
Coquettish, good-natured and underneath a dreamy appearance. Imagination 
stronger than feeling. Very much affected by other influences, and therefore more 
dependent upon dignity than most symbols. 


She rules from 20 Degree Gemini to 20 Degree Cancer. 


Water of Water 
Queen of Nymphs or Undines. 


XI. The Prince of the Chariot of the Waters 


King of Cups 


pg. 15 


Book T 


A WINGED Kingly Figure with winged crown seated in a chariot drawn by an 
eagle. On the wheel is the symbol of a scorpion. The eagle is borne as a crest on 
his crown, cuirass and buskins. General attire like King of Wands. Beneath his 
chariot is the calm and stagnant water of a lake. His armour resembles feathers 
more than scales. He holds in one hand a lotus, and in the other a cup, charged 
with the sigil of his scale. A serpent issues from the cup, and has its head tending 
down to the waters of the lake. He is subtle, violent, crafty and artistic; a fierce 
nature with calm exterior. Powerful for good or evil but more attracted by the evil 
if allied with apparent Power or Wisdom. 


If ill dignified, he is intensely evil and merciless. 
He rules from 20 Degree Libra to 20 Degree Scorpio. 


Air of Water 
Prince and Emperor of Nymphs or Undines. 


XII. The Princess of the Waters; The Lotus of the Palace of the 
Floods 


Knave of Cups 


A BEAUTIFUL Amazon-like figure, softer in nature than the Princess of Wands. 
Her attire is similar. She stands on a sea with foaming spray. Away to her right a 
Dolphin. She wears as a crest a swan with opening wings. She bears in one hand a 
lotus, and in the other an open cup from which a turtle issues. Her mantle is lined 
with swans-down, and is of thin floating material. 


Sweetness, poetry, gentleness and kindness. Imaginative, dreamy, at times 
indolent, yet courageous if roused. 


When ill dignified she is selfish and luxurious. 
She rules a quadrant of the heavens around Kether. 
Earth of Water 


Princess and Empress of the Nymphs or Undines 
Throne of the Ace of Cups. 


pg. 16 


Book T 


XIII. The Lord of the Winds and the Breezes; he King of the Spirits 
of Air 


Knight of Swords 


A WINGED Warrior with crowned Winged Helmet, mounted upon a brown 
steed. His general equipment is as that of the Knight of Wands, but he wears as a 
crest a winged six-pointed star, similar to those represented on the heads of Castor 
and Pollux the Dioscuri, the twins Gemini (a part of which constellation is 
included in his rule). He holds a drawn sword with the sigil of his scale upon its 
pommel. Beneath his horse's feet are dark-driving stratus clouds. 


He is active, clever, subtle, fierce, delicate, courageous, skilful, but inclined to 
domineer. Also to overvalue small things, unless well dignified. 


If ill dignified, deceitful, tyrannical and crafty. 
Rules from 20 Degree Taurus to 20 Degree Gemini. 


Fire of Air 
King of the Sylphs and Sylphides. 


XIV. The Queen of the Thrones of Air 


Queen of Swords 


A GRACEFUL woman with wavy, curling hair, like a Queen seated upon a 
Throne and crowned. Beneath the Throne are grey cumulus clouds. Her general 
attire is as that of the Queen of Wands, but she wears as a crest a winged child's 
head. A drawn sword in one hand, and in the other a large, bearded, newly 
severed head of a man. 


Intensely perceptive, keen observation, subtle, quick and confident: often 
persevering, accurate in superficial things, graceful, fond of dancing and 
balancing. 


If ill dignified, cruel, sly, deceitful, unreliable, though with a good exterior. 


Rules from 20 Degree Virgo to 20 Degree Libra. 


pg. 17 


Book T 


Water of Air 
Queen of the Sylphs and Sylphides. 


XV. The Prince of the Chariot of the Winds 


King of Swords 


A WINGED King with Winged Crown, seated in a chariot drawn by Arch Fays, 
represented as winged youths very slightly dressed, with butterfly wings: heads 
encircled by a fillet with a pentagram thereon: and holding wands surmounted by 
pentagrams, the same butterfly wings on their feet and fillets. General equipment 
as the King of Wands: but he bears as a crest a winged angelic head with a 
pentagram on the brows. Beneath the chariot are grey nimbus clouds. His hair 
long and waving in serpentine whirls, and whorl figures compose the scales of his 
armour. A drawn sword in one hand; a sickle in the other. With the sword he 
rules, with the sickle he slays. 


Full of ideas and thoughts and designs, distrustful, suspicious, firm in friendship 
and enmity; careful, observant, slow, over-cautious, symbolizes GR: Alpha and 
GR:Omega; he slays as fast as he creates. 


If ill dignified: harsh, malicious, plotting; obstinate, yet hesitating; unreliable. 
Rules from 20 Degree Capricorn to 20 Degree Aquarius. 


Air of Air 
Prince and Emperor of the Sylphs and Sylphides. 


XVI. The Princess of the Rushing Winds; The Lotus of the Palace of 
Air 


Knave of Swords 


AN AMAZON figure with waving hair, slighter than the Rose of the Palace of 
Fire. Her attire is similar. The Feet seem springy, giving the idea of swiftness. 
Weight changing from one foot to another and body swinging around. She is a 
mixture of Minerva and Diana: her mantle resembles the AEgis of Minerva. She 
wears as a crest the head of the Medusa with serpent hair. She holds a sword in 
one hand; and the other rests upon a small silver altar with grey smoke (no fire) 
ascending from it. Beneath her feet are white clouds. 


pg. 18 


Book T 


Wisdom, strength, acuteness; subtlety in material things: grace and dexterity. 
If ill dignified, she is frivolous and cunning. 
She rules a quadrant of the heavens around Kether. 

Earth of Air 


Princess and Empress of the Sylphs and Sylphides. 
Throne of the Ace of Wands. 


XVII. The Lord of the Wide and Fertile Land; The King of the 
Spirits of Earth 


Knight of Pentacles 


A DARK Winged Warrior with winged and crowned helmet: mounted on a light 
brown horse. Equipment as the Knight of Wands. 


The winged head of a stag or antelope as a crest. Beneath the horse's feet is fertile 
land with ripened corn. In one hand he bears a sceptre surmounted by a hexagram: 


in the other a Pentacle like that of the Zelator Adeptus Minor. 


Unless very well dignified he is heavy, dull, and material. Laborious, clever, and 
patient in material matters. 


If ill dignified, he is avaricious, grasping, dull, jealous; not very courageous, 
unless assisted by other symbols. 


Rules from above 20 Degree of Leo to 20 Degree of Virgo. 


Fire of Earth 
King of Gnomes. 


XVIII. The Queen of the Thrones of Earth 


Queen of Pentacles 


A WOMAN of beautiful face with dark hair; seated upon a throne, beneath which 
is dark sandy earth. One side of her face is light, the other dark; and her 
symbolism is best represented in profile. Her attire is similar to that of the Queen 


pg. 19 


Book T 


of Wands: but she bears a winged goat's head as a crest. A goat is by her side. In 
one hand she bears a sceptre surmounted by a cube, and in the other an orb of 
gold. 


She is impetuous, kind; timid, rather charming; great-hearted; intelligent, 
melancholy; truthful, yet of many moods. 


If ill dignified she is undecided, capricious, changeable, foolish. 
She rules from 20 Degree Sagittarius to 20 Degree Capricorn. 


Water of Earth 
The Queen of Gnomes. 


XIX. The Prince of the Chariot of Earth 
King of Pentacles 
A WINGED Kingly Figure seated in a chariot drawn by a bull. He bears as a crest 
the symbol of the head of the winged bull. Beneath the chariot is land, with many 
flowers. In the one hand he bears an orb of gold held downwards, and in the other 


a sceptre surmounted by an orb and cross. 


Increase of matter. Increases good or evil, solidifies; practically applies things. 
Steady; reliable. 


If ill dignified he is selfish, animal and material: stupid. In either case slow to 
anger, but furious if roused. 


Rules from 20 Degree Aries to 20 Degree Taurus. 


Air of Earth 
Prince and Emperor of the Gnomes. 


XX. Princess of the Echoing Hills; Rose of the Palace of Earth 


Knave of Pentacles 


A STRONG and beautiful Amazon figure with rich brown hair, standing on grass 
or flowers. A grove of trees near her. Her form suggests Hebe, Ceres, and 
Proserpine. She bears a winged ram's head as a crest: and wears a mantle of 


pg. 20 


Book T 


sheepskin. In one hand she carries a sceptre with a circular disk: in the other a 
Pentacle similar to that of the Ace of Pentacles. 


She is generous, kind, diligent, benevolent, careful, courageous, persevering, 


pitiful. 


If ill dignified she is wasteful and prodigal. She rules over one quadrant of the 
heavens around the North Pole of the Ecliptic. 


Earth of Earth 
Princess and Empress of the Gnomes. 
Throne of the Ace of Pentacles. 


Herein are Resumed The Especial Characteristics of the Four Court Cards 
of the Suits 


Suits 


Wands 


Cups 


Cards 


King 


Queen 


Prince 


Princess 


King 


Queen 


Crests 


Winged 
black 
horse's head 


Leopard's 
head, 
winged 


Lion's head, 
winged 


Tiger's head 


Peacock 
with opened 
fan 


Ibis 


Symbols 


Black horse, waving 
flames, club, scarlet 
cloak 


Leopard, steady 
flames, wand with 
heavy head or end 


Waved and salient 
flames, fire wand of 
Zelator Adept 


Tiger, leaping flames, 
gold altar, long club, 
largest at bottom 


White horse, crab 
issuing from cup, sea 


Ibis, crayfish issuing 


Hair 
Red- 
gold 


Red- 
gold 


Yellow 


Red- 


gold 


Fair 


Gold- 


Eyes 


Grey or 
hazel 


Blue or 
brown 


Blue- 


grey 


Blue 


Blue 


Blue 


pg. 21 


Book T 


Swords 


Pentacles 


Prince 


Princess 


King 


Queen 


Prince 


Princess 


King 


Queen 


Prince 


Princess 


Eagle 


Swan 


Winged 
hexagram 


Winged 
child's head 


Winged 
Angel's 
head 


Medusa's 
head 


Winged 
stag's head 


Winged 
goat's head 


Winged 
bull's head 


Winged 


from cup, river 


Scorpion, eagle; 
serpent issuing from 
cup, lake 


Dolphin, lotus, sea 
with spray, turtle from 
cup 


Winged brown horse, 
driving clouds, drawn 
sword 


Head of man severed, 
cumulus clouds, 
drawn sword 


Arch fairies winged, 
whirling hair, nimbi, 
drawn sword and 
sickle 


Silver altar, smoke, 
clouds, drawn sword 


Light-brown horse, 
ripe cornland, sceptre 
with hexagram, 
pentacle as Zelator 
Adept 


Barren land, fan, light 
one side only, sceptre 
with cube, orb of gold 


Flowery land, bull, 
sceptre with orb and 
cross, orb held 
downwards 


Grass, flowers, grove 


brown 


Brown 


Brown 


Dark- 
brown 


Light- 
brown 


Dark 


Light- 
brown 


Dark 


Dark 


Dark- 
brown 


Rich 


Grey or 
brown 


Blue or 


brown 


Dark 


Grey 


Dark 


Blue 


Dark 


Dark 


Dark 


Dark 


pg. 22 


Book T 


ram's head __ of trees, sceptre with brown 
disk, pentacle like that 
in ace 


Of the Thirty-Six Decans 


HERE follow the descriptions of the smaller cards of the four suits, thirty-six in 
number, answering unto the thirty-six Decans of the Zodiac. 


Commencing from the sign Aries, the "Central" Decans of each sign follow the 
order of the Days of the Week. Thus --- 


OF THE THIRTY-SIX DECANS 


HERE follow the descriptions of the smaller cards of the four suits, thirty-six in 
number, answering unto the thirty-six Decans of the Zodiac. 


Commencing from the sign Aries, the Central Decans of each sign follow the 
order of the Days of the Week. Thus --- 


Card Central Decan of Meaning Day 
3 of Wands Aries Established Strength Sun 
6 of Pentacles Taurus Material Success Moon 
9 of Swords Gemini Despair and Cruelty Mars 
3 of Cups Cancer Abundance Mercury 
6 of Wands Leo Victory Jupiter 
9 of Pentacles Virgo Material Gain Venus 
3 of Swords Libra Sorrow Saturn 
6 of Cups Scorpio Pleasure Sun 
9 of Wands Sagittarius Great Strength Moon 


pg. 23 


Book T 


3 of Pentacles Capricorn Material Works Mars 
6 of Swords Aquarius Earned Success Mercury 
9 of Swords Pisces Material Happiness Jupiter 


Being thus the Four Threes, Sixes, and Nines. 


The first and third Decans follow the same order: Sunday beginning the First 
Decan of Virgo and in the Third Decans of Gemini and Capricorn. 


The planets govern respectively Decans with the following Titles --- 


Saturn 
1. Leo Strife 5 of Wands. 
2. Libra Sorrow 3 of Swords. 
3. Sagittarius Oppression 10 of Wands. 
4. Pisces Abundant Success 8 of Cups. 


5. Taurus Success Unfulfilled 7 of Pentacles. 


Or in Taurus Leo Libra Sagittarius Pisces two wands: 1 each of the other suits. 


Jupiter 
1. Leo Victory 6 of Wands. 
2. Libra Rest from Strife 4 of Swords. 


3. Capricorn Harmonious Change 2 of Pentacles. 
4. Pisces Material Happiness 9 of Cups. 


5. Gemini Shortened Force 8 of Swords. 


pg. 24 


Book T 


Or in Gemini Leo Libra Capricorn Pisces two swords: | each of others. 


Mars 
1. Leo Valour 7 of Wands. 
2. Scorpio Loss in Pleasure 5 of Cups. 
3. Capricorn Material Works 3 of Pentacles. 
4. Pisces Perfected Success 10 of Cups. 
5. Aries Dominion 2 of Wands. 


6. Gemini Despair and Cruelty 9 of Swords. 


Or in Aries Gemini Leo Scorpio Capricorn Pisces 2 W. 2 C.: 1 each of others. 
One more Decan than the others. 


Sun 
1. Virgo Prudence 8 of Pentacles. 
2. Scorpio Pleasure 6 of Cups. 
3. Capricorn Earthly Power 4 of Pentacles. 
4. Aries Established Strength 3 of Wands. 
5. Gemini Ruin 10 of Swords. 


Or in Aries Gemini Virgo Scorpio Capricorn 2 pentacles: 1 each of others. 


Venus 
1. Virgo Material Gain 9 of Pentacles. 


2. Scorpio  Illusionary Success 7 of Cups. 


pg. 25 


Book T 


3. Aquarius Defeat 5 of Swords. 
4. Aries Perfected Work 4 of Wands. 


5. Cancer Love 2 of Cups. 


Or in Aries Cancer Virgo Scorpio Aquarius 2 Cups: 1 each of others. 


Mercury 
1. Virgo Wealth 10 of Pentacles. 
2. Sagittarius Swiftness 8 of Wands. 


3. Aquarius Earned Success 6 of Swords. 
4. Taurus Material Trouble 5 of Pentacles. 


5. Cancer Abundance 3 of Cups. 


Or in Taurus Cancer Virgo Sagittarius Aquarius two Pentacles: 1 of each of the 
others. 


Moon 
1. Libra Peace Restored 2 of Swords. 
2. Sagittarius Great Strength 9 of Wands. 
3. Aquarius Unstable Effort 7 of Swords. 
4. Taurus Material Success 6 of Pentacles. 


5. Cancer Blended Pleasure 4 of Cups. 


Or in Taurus Cancer Libra Sagittarius Aquarius two Swords: 1 of each of the 
others. 


pg. 26 


Book T 


There being thirty-six Decans and seven Planets, it follows that one of the latter 
must rule over one more Decan than the others. This is the Planet Mars, to which 
are allotted the last Decan of Pisces, and the first Oof Aries, because the long cold 
of the winter requires a great energy to overcome it, and initiate spring. 


And the beginning of the Decanates is from the royal Star of Leo, the great Star 
Cor Leonis: and therefore is the first Decan that of Saturn in Leo. 


Here follow the general meanings of the small cards of the suits, as classified 
under the nine Sephiroth below Kether. 


HB:ChKMH The Four Twos symbolize the Powers of the King and Queen just 
uniting and initiating the Force; but before the Prince and Princess are thoroughly 
brought into action. Therefore do they generally imply the initiation and 
fecundation of a thing. 


HB:BYNH Realization of action owing to the Prince being produced. The central 
symbol on each card. Action definitely commenced for good or evil. 


HB:ChSD Perfection, realization, completion: making a matter settled and fixed. 


HB:GBVRH Opposition, strife and struggle: war; obstacle to the thing in hand. 
Ultimate success or failure is otherwise shewn. 


HB:ThPARTh Definite accomplishment. Thing carried out. 


HB:NTzCh Generally shew a force transcending the Material Plane: and is like 
unto a Crown; which, indeed, is powerful, but requireth one capable of wearing it. 
The Sevens then shew a possible result: which is dependent on the action then 
taken. They depend much on the symbols that accompany them. 


HB:HVD Solitary success: "i.e." success in the matter for the time being: but not 
leading to much result apart from the thing itself. 


HB:YSVD Very great fundamental force. Executive power, because they restore a 
firm basis. Powerful for good or evil. 


HB:MLKVTh Fixed, culminated, complete Force, whether good or evil. The 
matter thoroughly and definitely determined. Ultimating Force. 


pg. 27 


Book T 


Follow the particular descriptions of each of the thirty-six cards: with full 
meanings. 


Decan-cards are always modified by the other symbols with which they are in 
contact. 


XXI. The Lord of Strife 


Five of Wands 


TWO White Radiant Angelic Hands issuant per nubes dexter and sinister. They 
are clasped together in the grip of the First Order, "i.e." the four fingers of each 
right hand crooked into each other, the thumbs meeting above; and they hold, at 
the same time, by their centres, five wands or torches which are similar unto the 
wands of a Zelator Adeptus Minor. One wand is upright in the middle; the others 
cross each other. Flames leap from the point of junction. Above the middle wand 
is the sign Saturn, and below is that of Leo: thus representing the Decante. Violent 
strife and boldness, rashness, cruelty, violence, lust, desire, prodigality and 
generosity; depending on whether the card is well or ill dignified. 


Geburah of HB:Y (Quarrelling and fighting). 


This Decan hath its beginning from the Royal Star of Leo: and unto it are allotted 
the two great Angels of the Schemhamphorash HB: VHVYH and HB:YLYAL. 


XXII. The Lord of Victory 
Six of Wands 

TWO hands in grip as the last, holding six wands crossed three and three. Flames 
issue from the point of junction. Above and below are short wands with flames 
issuing, surmounted respectively by the symbols of Jupiter and Leo, representing 
the Decan. 
Victory after strife: Love: pleasure gained by labour: carefulness, sociability and 
avoiding of strife, yet victory therein: also insolence, and pride of riches and 


success, etc. The whole dependent on the dignity. 


Tiphareth of HB:Y (Gain). 


pg. 28 


Book T 


Hereunto are allotted the great Angels HB:SYTAL and HB:a'aLMYH of the 
Schemhamphorash. 


XXIII. The Lord of Valour 


Seven of Wands 


TWO hands holding by grip six wands, three crossed. A third hand issuing from a 
cloud at the lower part of the card, holding an upright wand which passes between 
the others. Flames leap from the point of junction. Above and below the central 
wand are the symbols of Mars and Leo, representing the Decan. 


Possible victory, depending on the energy and courage exercised; valour; 
opposition, obstacles and difficulties, yet courage to meet them; quarrelling, 
ignorance, pretence, and wrangling, and threatening; also victory in small and 
unimportant things: and influence upon subordinates. 


Netzach of HB:Y (Opposition, yet courage). 


Therein rule the two great Angels HB: MHShYH and HB:LLHAL of the 
Schemhamphorash. 


XXIV. The Lord of Prudence 


Eight of Pentacles 


A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand, issuing from a cloud, and grasping a branch 
of a rose tree, with four white roses thereon, which touch only the four lowermost 
Pentacles. No rosebuds even, but only leaves, touch the four uppermost disks. All 
the Pentacles are similar to that of the Ace, but without the Maltese cross and 
wings. They are arranged like the geomantic figure Populus: 


* * 
x * 
* * 
* * 


pg. 29 


Book T 


Above and below them are the symbols Sun and Virgo for the Decan. 
Over-careful in small things at the expense of great: "Penny wise and pound 
foolish": gain of ready money in small sums; mean; avaricious; industrious; 
cultivation of land; hoarding, lacking in enterprise. 
Hod of HB:H (Skill: prudence: cunning). 
Therein rule those mighty Angels HB: AKAYH and HB:KHThAL. 

XXV. The Lord of Material Gain 


Nine of Pentacles 


A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand, holding a rose branch with nine white roses, 
each of which touches a Pentacle. The Pentacles are arranged thus 


x * 
* * 
x 
* * 
* * 


and there are rosebuds on the branches as well as flowers. Venus and Virgo above 
and below. 


Complete realization of material gain, good, riches; inheritance; covetous; 
treasuring of goods; and sometimes theft and knavery. The whole according to 
dignity. 


Yesod of HB:H (Inheritance, much increase of goods). 


Herein those mighty Angels HB:HZY AL and HB:ALDYH have rule and 
dominion. 


XXVI. The Lord of Wealth 


pg. 30 


Book T 


Ten of Pentacles 
AN Angelic Hand, holding by the lower extremity a branch whose roses touch all 
the Pentacles. No buds, however, are shewn. The symbols of Mercury and Virgo 


are above and below. 


The Pentacles are thus arranged: 


* * 
* 

* * 
* * 
* 

* * 


Completion of material gain and fortune; but nothing beyond: as it were, at the 
very pinnacle of success. Old age, slothfulness; great wealth, yet sometimes loss 
in part; heaviness; dullness of mind, yet clever and prosperous in money 
transactions. 


Malkuth of HB:H (Riches and wealth). 


Herein are HB: LAVYH and HB:HHa'aYH set over this Decan as Angel Rulers. 
XXVII. The Lord of Peace Restored 


Two of Swords or Pikes 


Two crossed swords, like the air dagger of a Zelator Adeptus Minor, each held by 
a White Radiant Angelic Hand. Upon the point where the two cross is a rose of 
five petals, emitting white rays. At the top and bottom of the card are two small 
daggers, supporting respectively the symbol {Crescent moon with horns upward} 
thus, and Libra representing the Decanate. 


Contradictory characters in the same nature, strength through suffering; pleasure 
after pain. Sacrifice and trouble, yet strength arising therefrom, symbolized by the 


pg. 31 


Book T 


position of the rose, as though the pain itself had brought forth beauty. 
Arrangement, peace restored; truce; truth and untruth; sorrow and sympathy. Aid 
to the weak; arrangement; justice, unselfishness; also a tendency to repetition of 
affronts on being pardoned; injury when meaning well; given to petitions; also a 
want of tact, and asking question of little moment; talkative. 


Chokmah of Vau. Quarrel made up, yet still some tension in relations: actions 
sometimes selfish, sometimes unselfish. 


Herein rule the Great Angels HB:YZLAL and HB:MNHAL. 
XXVIII. The Lord of Sorrow 


Three of Swords or Spears 


THREE White Radiating Angelic Hands, issuing from clouds, and holding three 
swords upright (as though the central sword had struck apart the two others, 
which were crossed in the preceding symbol): the central sword cuts asunder the 
rose of five petals, which in the previous symbol grew at the junction of the 
swords; its petals are falling, and no white rays issue from it. Above and below 
the central sword are the symbols of Saturn and Libra. 


Disruption, interruption, separation, quarrelling; sowing of discord and strife, 
mischief-making, sorrow and tears; yet mirth in Platonic pleasures; singing, 
faithfulness in promises, honesty in money transactions, selfish and dissipated, yet 
sometimes generous: deceitful in words and repetitions; the whole according to 
dignity. 


Binah of HB:V (Unhappiness, sorrow, and tears). 


Herein rule the Great Angels HB: HRYAL and HB:HQMYH as Lords of the 
Decan. 


XXIX. The Lord of Rest from Strife 


Four of Swords 


TWO White Radiating Angelic Hands, each holding two swords; which four cross 
in the centre. The rose of five petals with white radiations is reinstated on the 
point of their intersection. Above and below, on the points of two small daggers, 
are Jupiter and Libra, representing the Decanate. 


pg. 32 


Book T 


Rest from sorrow; yet after and through it. Peace from and after war. Relaxation 
of anxiety. Quietness, rest, ease and plenty, yet after struggle. Goods of this life; 
abundance; modified by dignity as is usual. 


Chesed of HB:V (Convalescence, recovery from sickness; change for the better). 


Herein do HB:LAVYH and HB:KLYAL bear rule. 
XXX. The Lord of Loss in Pleasure 


Five of Cups or Chalices 


A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand, holding lotuses or water-lilies, of which the 
flowers are falling right and left. Leaves only, and no buds, surmount them. These 
lotus stems ascend between the cups in the manner of a fountain, but no water 
flows therefrom; neither is there water in any of the cups, which are somewhat of 
the shape of the magical instrument of the Zelator Adeptus Minor. 


Above and below are the symbols of Mars and Scorpio for the Decan. 

Death, or end of pleasure: disappointment, sorrow and loss in those things from 
which pleasure is expected. Sadness, treachery, deceit; ill-will, detraction; charity 
and kindness ill requited; all kinds of anxieties and troubles from unsuspected and 


unexpected sources. 


Geburah of HB:H (Disappointment in love, marriage broken off, unkindness of a 
friend; loss of friendship). 


Herein rule HB:LVVYH and HB:PHLYH. 
XXXI. The Lord of Pleasure 


Six of Chalices 


AN Angelic Hand, as before, holds a group of stems of water-lilies or lotuses, 
from which six flowers bend, one over each cup. From these flowers a white 
glistening water flows into the cups as from a fountain, but they are not yet full. 
Above and below are Sun and Scorpio referring to the Decan. 


Commencement of steady increase, gain and pleasure; but commencement only. 
Also affront, detection, knowledge, and in some instances contention and strife 


pg. 33 


Book T 


arising from unwarranted self-assertion and vanity. Sometimes thankless and 
presumptuous; sometimes amiable and patient. According to dignity as usual. 


Tiphareth of HB:H (Beginning of wish, happiness, success, or enjoyment). 
Therein rule HB:NLKAL and HB:YYYAL. 


XXXII. The Lord of Illusionary Success 


Seven of Chalices 


THE seven cups are arranged as two descending triangles above a point: a hand, 
as usual, holds lotus stems which arise from the central lower cup. The hand is 
above this cup and below the middle one. With the exception of the central lower 
cup, each is overhung by a lotus flower, but no water falls from these into any of 
the cups, which are all quite empty. Above and below are the symbols of the 
Decanate Venus and Scorpio. 


Possible victory, but neutralized by the supineness of the person: illusionary 
success, deception in the moment of apparent victory. Lying, error, promises 
unfulfilled. Drunkenness, wrath, vanity. Lust, fornication, violence against 
women, selfish dissipation, deception in love and friendship. Often success 
gained, but not followed up. Modified as usual by dignity. 


Netzach of HB:H (Lying, promises unfulfilled; illusion, deception, error; slight 
success at outset, not retained). 


Herein the Angels HB:MLHAL and HB:ChHVYH rule. 
XXXIII. The Lord of Swiftness 


Eight of Wands or Torches 


FOUR White Radiating Angelic Hands (two proceeding from each side) issuant 
from clouds; clasped in two pairs in the centre with the grip of the First Order. 
They hold eight wands, crossed four with four. Flames issue from the point of 
junction. Surmounting the small wands with flames issuing down them, and 
placed in the centre at the top and bottom of the card respectively, are the symbols 
of Mercury and Sagittarius for the Decan. 


pg. 34 


Book T 


Too much force applied too suddenly. Very rapid rush, but quickly passed and 
expended. Violent, but not lasting. Swiftness, rapidity, courage, boldness, 
confidence, freedom, warfare, violence; love of open air, field-sports, gardens and 
meadows. Generous, subtle, eloquent, yet somewhat untrustworthy; rapacious, 
insolent, oppressive. Theft and robbery. According to dignity. 


Hod of HB:Y (Hasty communications and messages; swiftness). 
Therein rule the Angels HB:NThHYH and HB:HAAYH. 


XXXIV. The Lord of Great Strength 


Nine of Wands or Torches 


FOUR hands, as in the previous symbol, holding eight wands crossed four and 
four; but a fifth hand at the foot of the card holds another wand upright, which 
traverses the point of junction with the others: flames leap herefrom. Above and 
below are the symbols Moon and Sagittarius. 


Tremendous and steady force that cannot be shaken. Herculean strength, yet 
sometimes scientifically applied. Great success, but with strife and energy. 
Victory, preceded by apprehension and fear. Health good, and recovery not in 
doubt. Generous, questioning and curious; fond of external appearances: 
intractable, obstinate. 


Yesod of HB:Y (Strength, power, health, recovery from sickness). 


Herein rule the Angels HB: YRThAL and HB:ShAHYH. 
XXXV. The Lord of Oppression 


Ten of Wands 


FOUR hands holding eight wands crossed as before. A fifth hand holding two 
wands upright, which traverses the junction of the others. Flames issuant. Saturn 
and Sagittarius. 


Cruel and overbearing force and energy, but applied only to material and selfish 
ends. Sometimes shows failure in a matter, and the opposition too strong to be 
controlled; arising from the person's too great selfishness at the beginning. Ill- 
will, levity, lying, malice, slander, envy, obstinacy; swiftness in evil and deceit, if 


pg. 35 


Book T 


ill dignified. Also generosity, disinterestedness and self-sacrifice, when well 
dignified. 


Malkuth of HB:V (Cruelty, malice, revenge, injustice). 
Therein rule HB:RYYAL and HB:AVMAL. 
XXXVI. The Lord of Harmonious Change 


Two of Disks or Pentacles 


TWO wheels, disks or pentacles, similar to that of the Ace. They are united by a 
green-and-gold serpent, bound about them like a figure of 8. It holds its tail in its 
mouth. A White Radiant Angelic Hand holds the centre of the whole. No roses 
enter into this card. Above and below are the symbols of Jupiter and Capricorn. It 
is a revolving symbol. 


The harmony of change, alternation of gain and loss; weakness and strength; 
everchanging occupation; wandering, discontented with any fixed condition of 
things; now elated, then melancholy; industrious, yet unreliable; fortunate through 
prudence of management, yet sometimes unaccountably foolish; alternatively 
talkative and suspicious. Kind, yet wavering and inconsistent. Fortunate in 
journeying. Argumentative. 


Chokmah of HB:H (Pleasant change, visit to friends). 
Herein the Angels HB: LKBAL and HB: VShRYH have rule. 


XXXVII. The Lord of Material Works. 


Three of Pentacles 


A WHITE-WINGED Angelic Hand, as before, holding a branch of a rose tree, of 
which two white rosebuds touch and surmount the topmost Pentacle. The 
Pentacles are arranged in an equilateral triangle. Above and below the symbols 
Mars and Capricorn. 


Working and constructive force, building up, creation, erection; realization and 
increase of material things; gain in commercial transactions, rank; increase of 
substance, influence, cleverness in business, selfishness. Commencement of 


pg. 36 


Book T 


matters to be established later. Narrow and prejudiced. Keen in matters of gain; 
sometimes given to seeking after impossibilities. 


Binah of HB:H (Business, paid employment, commercial transaction). 
Herein are HB: YChVYH and HB:LHChYH Angelic Rulers. 


XXXVIII. The Lord of Earthly Power 


Four of Pentacles 


A HAND holding a branch of a rose tree, but without flowers or buds, save that in 
the centre is one fully blown white rose. Pentacles are disposed as on the points of 
a square; a rose in its centre. Symbols Sun and Capricorn above and below to 
represent the Decan. 


Assured material gain: success, rank, dominion, earthy power, completed but 
leading to nothing beyond. Prejudicial, covetous, suspicious, careful and orderly, 
but discontented. Little enterprise or originality. According to dignity as usual. 


Chesed of HB:H (Gain of money or influence: a present). 
Herein do HB:KVQYH and HB:MNDAL bear rule. 


XXXIX. The Lord of Defeat 


Five of Swords 


TWO Rayed Angelic Hands each holding two swords nearly upright, but falling 
apart of each other, right and left of the card. A third hand holds a sword upright 
in the centre as though it had disunited them. The petals of the rose, which in the 
four had been reinstated in the centre, are torn asunder and falling. Above and 
below are Venus and Aquarius for Decan. 


Contest finished and decided against the person; failure, defeat, anxiety, trouble, 
poverty, avarice, grieving after gain, laborious, unresting; loss and vileness of 
nature; malicious, slanderous, lying, spiteful and tale-bearing. A busybody and 
separator of friends, hating to see peace and love between others. Cruel, yet 
cowardly, thankless and unreliable. Clever and quick in thought and speech. 
Feelings of pity easily roused, but unenduring. 


pg. 37 


Book T 


Geburah of HB:V (Defeat, loss, malice, spite, slander, evil-speaking). 


Herein the Angels HB: ANYAL and HB:Cha'aMYH bear rule. 
XL. The Lord of Earned Success 


Six of Swords 


TWO hands, as before, each holding two swords which cross in the centre. Rose 
re-established thereon. Mercury and Aquarius above and below, supported on the 
points of two short daggers or swords. 


Success after anxiety and trouble; self-esteem, beauty, conceit, but sometimes 
modesty therewith; dominance, patience, labour, etc. 


Tiphareth of HB:V (Labour, work, journey by water). 
Ruled by the Great Angels HB:RHa'aAL and HB: YYVHL. 


XLI. The Lord of Unstable Effort 


Seven of Swords 


TWO Angelic Radiating Hands as before, each holding three swords. A third 
hand holds up a single sword in the centre. The points of all the swords "just 
touch" each other, the central sword not altogether dividing them. 


The Rose of the previous symbols of this suit is held up by the same hand which 
holds the central sword: as if the victory were at its disposal. Symbols of Moon 
and Aquarius. 


Partial success. Yielding when victory is within grasp, as if the last reserves of 
strength were used up. Inclination to lose when on the point of gaining, through 
not continuing the effort. Love of abundance, fascinated by display, given to 
compliments, affronts and insolences, and to spy upon others. Inclined to betray 
confidences, not always intentionally. Rather vacillatory and unreliable. 


Netzach of HB:V (Journey by land: in character untrustworthy). 


Herein rule the Great Angels HB: HHHAL and HB:Ma'aKAL. 


pg. 38 


Book T 


XLII. The Lord of Abandoned Success 


Eight of Chalices 


A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand, holding a group of stems of lotuses or water- 
lilies. There are only two flowers shown, which bend over the two central cups, 
pouring into them a white water which fills them and runs over into the three 
lowest, which later are not yet filled. The three uppermost are quite empty. 


At the top and bottom of the card are symbols Saturn and Pisces. 


Temporary success, but without further results. Thing thrown aside as soon as 
gained. Not lasting, even in the matter in hand. Indolence in success. Journeying 
from place to place. Misery and repining without cause. Seeking after riches. 
Instability. 


Hod of HB:H (Success abandoned; decline of interest). 


The Angels ruling are HB: VVLYH and HB: YLHYH. 
XLIII. The Lord of Material Happiness 


Nine of Chalices 


A WHITE Radiant Angelic Hand, issuing from a cloud holding lotus or water- 
lilies, one flower of which overhangs each cup; from it a white water pours. Cups 
are arranged in three rows of 3. Jupiter and Pisces above and below. 


Complete and perfect realization of pleasure and happiness, almost perfect; self- 
praise, vanity, conceit, much talking of self, yet kind and lovable, and may be 
self-denying therewith. High-minded, not easily satisfied with small and limited 
ideas. Apt to be maligned through too much self-assumption. A good and 
generous, but sometimes foolish nature. 


pg. 39 


Book T 


Yesod of HB:H (Complete success, pleasure and happiness, wishes fulfilled). 


Therein rule the Angels HB:SALYH and HB:a'aR YAL. 
XLIV. The Lord of Perfected Success 


Ten of Cups or Chalices 


HAND, as usual, holding bunch of water-lilies or lotuses, whose flowers pour a 
white water into all the cups, which "all run over." The uppermost cup is held 
sideways by a hand, and pours water into the left-hand upper cup. A single lotus 
flower surmounts the top cup, and is the source of the water that fills it. Above 
and below the symbols Mars and Pisces. 


Permanent and lasting success and happiness, because inspired from above. Not 
so sensual as "Lord of Material Happiness," yet almost more truly happy. 
Pleasure, dissipation, debauchery, quietness, peacemaking. Kindness, pity, 
generosity, wantonness, waste, etc., according to dignity. 
Malkuth of HB:H (Matter settled: complete good fortune). 
Herein the Great Angels HB:a'aShLYH and HB:MYHAL rule. 

XLV. The Lord of Dominion 


Two of Wands 


A WHITE Radiating Angelic hand, issuing from clouds, and grasping two crossed 
wands. Flames issue from the point of junction. On two small wands above and 
below, with flames of five issuing therefrom, are the symbols of Mars and Aries 
for the Decan. 


Strength, domination, harmony of rule and of justice. Boldness, courage, 
fierceness, shamelessness, revenge, resolution, generous, proud, sensitive, 
ambitious, refined, restless, turbulent, sagacious withal, yet unforgiving and 
obstinate. 


Chokmah of HB:Y (Influence over others, authority, power, dominion). 


Therein the Angels HB: VHVAL and HB:DNYAL bear rule. 


pg. 40 


Book T 


XLVI. The Lord of Established Strength 


Three of Wands 


A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand, as before, issuing from clouds and grasping 
three wands in the centre (two crossed, the third upright). Flames issue from the 
point of junction. Above and below are the symbols Sun and Aries. 


Established force, strength, realization of hope. Completion of labour. Success 
after struggle. Pride, nobility, wealth, power, conceit. Rude self-assumption and 
insolence. Generosity, obstinacy, etc. 


Binah of HB:Y (Pride, arrogance, self-assertion). 


Herein rule the Angels HB: HHShYH and HB:a'aMMYH. 
XLVII. The Lord of Perfected Work 


Four of Wands 


TWO White Radiating Angelic Hands, as before, issuing from clouds right and 
left of the card and clasped in the centre with the grip of the First Order, holding 
four wands or torches crossed. Flames issue from the point of junction. Above 
and below are two small flaming wands, with the symbols of Venus and Aries 
representing the Decan. 


Perfection or completion of a thing built up with trouble and labour. Rest after 
labour, subtlety, cleverness, beauty, mirth, success in completion. Reasoning 
faculty, conclusions drawn from previous knowledge. Unreadiness, unreliable and 
unsteady through over-anxiety and hurriedness of action. Graceful in manner, at 
times insincere, etc. 
Chesed of HB:Y (Settlement, arrangement, completion). 
Herein are HB:NNAAL and HB:NYThHL Angelic rulers. 

XLVIII. THE LORD OF MATERIAL TROUBLE 


Five of Pentacles 


pg. 41 


Book T 


A WHITE Radiant Angelic Hand issuing from clouds, and holding a branch of the 
white rose tree, but from which the roses are falling, and leaving no buds behind. 
Five Pentacles similar to the Ace. Above and below are Mercury and Taurus. 


Loss of money or position. Trouble about material things. Labour, toil, land 
cultivation; building, knowledge and acuteness of earthly things, poverty, 
carefulness, kindness; sometimes money regained after severe toil and labour. 
Unimaginative, harsh, stern, determined, obstinate. 


Geburah of HB:H (Loss of profession, loss of money, monetary anxiety). 


Herein the angels HB:MBHYH and HB:PNYAL rule. 
XLIX. The Lord of Material Success 
Six of Pentacles 
A WHITE Radiant Angelic Hand holding a rose branch with white roses and 


buds, each of which touches a Pentacle. Pentacles are arranged in two columns of 
three each: 


* * 
* * 
x * 


Above and below are the symbols Taurus and Moon of the Decan. 


Success and gain in material undertakings. Power, influence, rank, nobility, rule 
over the people. Fortunate, successful, liberal and just. 


If ill dignified, may be purse-proud, insolent from excess, or prodigal. 
Tiphareth of HB:H (Success in material things, prosperity in business). 
Herein rule the Angels HB:NMMYH and HB:YYLAL. 


L. The Lord of Success Unfulfilled 


Seven of Pentacles 


pg. 42 


Book T 


A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand issuing from a cloud, and holding a white rose 
branch. Seven Pentacles arranged like the geomantic figure Rubeus: 


* * 
x 

* * 

* x 


There are only five buds, which overhang, but do not touch the five uppermost 
Pentacles. Above and below are the Decan symbols, Saturn and Taurus 
respectively. 


Promises of success unfulfilled. (Shewn, as it were, by the fact that the rosebuds 
do not come to anything.) Loss of apparently promising fortune. Hopes deceived 
and crushed. Disappointment, misery, slavery, necessity and baseness. A 
cultivator of land, and yet a loser thereby. Sometimes it denotes slight and 
isolated gains with no fruits resulting therefrom, and of no further account, though 
seeming to promise well. 


Netzach of HB:H (Unprofitable speculations and employments; little gain for 
much labour). 


Therein HB:HRChAL and HB:MTzRAL are ruling Angels. 
LI. The Lord of Shortened Force 


Eight of Swords 


FOUR White Radiant Angelic Hands issuing from clouds, each holding two 
swords, points upwards; all the points touch near the top of the card. Hands issue, 
two at each bottom angle of the card. The pose of the other sword symbols is re- 
established in the centre. Above and below are the Decan symbols Jupiter and 
Gemini. 


Too much force applied to small things: too much attention to detail at the 
expense of the principal and more important points. When ill dignified, these 
qualities produce malice, pettiness, and domineering characteristics. Patience in 
detail of study; great care in some things, counterbalanced by equal disorder in 
others. Impulsive; equally fond of giving or receiving money or presents; 


pg. 43 


Book T 


generous, clever, acute, selfish and without strong feeling of affection. Admires 
wisdom, yet applies it to small and unworthy objects. 


Hod of HB:V (Narrow, restricted, petty, a prison). 


Therein rule the Angels HB: VMBAL and HB: YHHAL. 
LII. The Lord of Despair and Cruelty 


Nine of Swords 


FOUR Hands, as in the preceding figure, hold eight swords nearly upright, but 
with the points falling away from each other. A fifth hand holds a ninth sword 
upright in the centre, as if it had struck them asunder. No rose at all is shewn, as if 
it were not merely cut asunder, but utterly destroyed. Above and below are the 
Decan symbols Mars and Gemini. 


Despair, cruelty, pitilessness, malice, suffering, want, loss, misery. Burden, 
oppression, labour, subtlety and craft, dishonesty, lying and slander. 


Yet also obedience, faithfulness, patience, unselfishness, etc. According to 
dignity. 


Yesod of HB:V (Illness, suffering, malice, cruelty, pain). 


Therein do HB:a'aNVAL and HB:MChYAL bear rule. 
LUI. The Lord of Ruin 


Ten of Swords 


FOUR hands holding eight swords, as in the preceding symbol; the points falling 
away from each other. Two hands hold two swords crossed in the centre, as 
though their junction had disunited the others. No rose, flower or bud, is shewn. 
Above and below are Sun and Gemini, representing the Decan. 


Almost a worse symbol than the Nine of Swords. Undisciplined, warring force, 
complete disruption and failure. Ruin of all plans and projects. Disdain, insolence 
and impertinence, yet mirth and jollity therewith. A marplot, loving to overthrow 
the happiness of others; a repeater of things; given to much unprofitable speech, 
and of many words. Yet clever, eloquent, etc., according to dignity. 


pg. 44 


Book T 


Malkuth of HB:V (Ruin, death, defeat, disruption). 


Herein the Angels HB:DMBYH and HB:MNQAL reign. 
LIV. The Lord of Love 


Two of Chalices 


A WHITE Radiant Hand, issuant from the lower part of the card from a cloud, 
holds lotuses. A lotus flower rises above water, which occupies the lower part of 
the card rising above the hand. From this flower rises a stem, terminating near the 
top of the card in another lotus, from which flows a sparkling white water, as 

from a fountain. Crossed on the stem just beneath are two dolphins, Argent and 
Or, on to which the water falls, and from which it pours in full streams, like jets of 
gold and silver, into two cups; which in their turn overflow, flooding the lower 
part of the card. Venus and Cancer above and below. 


Harmony of masculine and feminine united. Harmony, pleasure, mirth, subtlety: 
but if ill dignified --- folly, dissipation, waste, silly actions. 


Chokmah of HB:H (Marriage, love, pleasure). 
Therein rule the Angels HB:AVa'aAL and HB:ChBVYH. 
LV. The Lord of Abundance 


Three of Chalices 


A WHITE Radiating Hand, as before, holds a group of lotuses or water-lilies, 
from which two flowers rise on either side of, and overhanging the top cup; 
pouring into it the white water. Flowers in the same way pour white water into the 
lower cups. All the cups overflow; the topmost into the two others, and these upon 
the lower part of the card. Cups are arranged in an erect equilateral triangle. 
Mercury and Cancer above and below. 


Abundance, plenty, success, pleasure, sensuality, passive success, good luck and 
fortune; love, gladness, kindness, liberality. 


Binah of HB:H (Plenty, hospitality, eating and drinking, pleasure, dancing, new 
clothes, merriment). 


pg. 45 


Book T 


Therein the Angels HB:RAHAL and HB:YBMYH are lords. 
LVI. The Lord of Blended Pleasure 


Four of Chalices 


FOUR cups: the two upper overflowing into the two lower, which do not 


overflow. An Angelic Hand grasps a branch of lotus, from which ascends a stem 
bearing one flower at the top of the card, from which the white water flows into 
the two upper cups. From the centre two leaves pass right and left, making, as it 
were, a cross between the four cups. Above and below are the symbols Moon and 


Cancer for the Decan. 


Success or pleasure approaching their end. A stationary period in happiness, 
which may, or may not, continue. It does not mean love and marriage so much as 
the previous symbol. It is too passive a symbol to represent perfectly complete 
happiness. Swiftness, hunting and pursuing. Acquisition by contention: injustice 


sometimes; some drawbacks to pleasure implied. 


Chesed of HB:H (Receiving pleasure or kindness from others, but some 
discomfort therewith). 


Therein rule the great Angels HB: HY Y AL and HB:MVMYH. 


Brief Meanings of Twenty-Two Keys 


IF the question refers to spiritual matters, the Fool means idea, thought, 
spirituality, that which endeavours to transcend Earth. But if question is 
material, it means folly, stupidity, eccentricity, or even mania. 

Skill, wisdom, adaptation, craft, cunning, or occult wisdom or power. 
Change, alternation, increase and decrease, fluctuation; whether for good 
or evil depends on the dignity. 

Beauty, happiness, pleasure, success. But with very bad dignity it means 
luxury, dissipation. 

War, conquest, victory, strife, ambition. 

Divine wisdom, manifestation, explanation, teaching, occult force 
voluntarily invoked. 

Inspiration (passive, mediumistic), motive power, action. 

Triumph, victory, health (sometimes unstable). 


pg. 46 


Book T 


9. Eternal justice. Strength and force, but arrested as in act of judgment. May 
mean law, trial, etc. 

10. Wisdom from on high. Active divine inspiration. Sometimes "unexpected 
current." 

11. Good fortune, happiness (within bounds). Intoxication of success. 

12. Courage, strength, fortitude, power passing on to action. Obstinacy. 

13. Enforced sacrifice, punishment, loss, fatal and not voluntary, suffering. 

14. Time, age, transformation, change involuntary (as opposed to 18, Pisces). 
Or death, destruction (only latter with special cards). 

15. Combination of forces, realization, action (material effect, good or evil). 

16. Materiality, material force, material temptation, obsession. 

17. Ambition, fighting, war, courage, or destruction, danger, fall, ruin. 

18. Hope, faith, unexpected help. Or dreaminess, deceived hope, etc. 

19. Dissatisfaction, voluntary change. Error, lying, falsity, deception. This 
card is very sensitive to dignity. 

20. Glory, gain, riches. With "very" evil cards it means arrogance, display, 
vanity. 

21. Final decision, judgment, sentence, determination of a matter without 
appeal, "on its plane." 

22. The matter itself. Synthesis, world, kingdom. Usually denotes actual 
subject of question, and therefore depends entirely on accompanying 
cards. 


Princes and Queens shew almost always actual men and women connected with 
the matter. 

But the Kings (Knights) sometime represent coming or going of a matter, 
according as they face. 

The Princesses shew opinions, thoughts, ideas, either in harmony with or opposed 
to, the subject. 


A Majority of Wands Energy, opposition, quarrel. 
A Majority of Cups Pleasure, merriment. 
A Majority of Swords Trouble, sadness, sickness, death. 


A Majority of Pentacles Business, money, possessions. 
A Majority of Keys Strong forces beyond the Querent's control. 


A Majority of Court Society, meetings of many persons. 


pg. 47 


Book T 


Cards 


A Majority of Aces 


4 Aces 
3 Aces 


4 Kings (Knights) 
3 Kings (Knights) 


4 Queens 

3 Queens 

4 Princes 

3 Princes 

4 Princesses 
3 Princesses 
4 Tens 

3 Tens 

4 Nines 

3 Nines 

4 Eights 

3 Eights 

4 Sevens 

3 Sevens 


4 Sixes 


Strength generally. Aces are always strong cards. 


Great power and force. 
Riches, success. 
Swiftness, rapidity. 


Unexpected meetings. Knights, in general, shew 
news. 


Authority, influence. 
Powerful friends. 
Meetings with the great. 
Rank and honour. 

New ideas or plans. 
Society of the young. 
Anxiety, responsibility. 
Buying and selling (commerce). 
Added responsibilities. 
Much correspondence. 
Much news. 

Much journeying. 
Disappointments. 
Treaties and compacts. 


Pleasure. 


pg. 48 


Book T 


3 Sixes Gain, success. 

4 Fives Order, regularity. 

3 Fives Quarrels, fights. 

4 Fours Rest, peace. 

3 Fours Industry. 

4 Threes Resolution, determination. 

3 Threes Deceit. 

4 Twos Conferences, conversations. 

3 Twos Reorganization, recommendation. 
Of The Dignities 


A CARD is strong or weak, well dignified or ill dignified, according to the cards 
next to it on either side. 

Cards of the same suit on either side strengthen it greatly, for good or evil 
according to their nature. 

Cards of opposite natures on either side weaken it greatly, for either good or evil. 
Swords are inimical to Pentacles. 

Wands are inimical to Cups. 

Swords are friendly with Cups and Wands. 

Wands are friendly with Swords and Pentacles. 

If a card fall between two other which are mutually contrary, it is not much 
affected by either. 


A Method of Divination by the Tarot 


1. THE Significator. 
Choose a card to represent the Querent, using your knowledge or 
judgment of his character rather than dwelling on his physical 
characteristics. 

2. Take the cards in your left hand. In the right hand hold the wand over 
them, and say: I invoke thee, I A O, that thou wilt send H R U, the great 
Angel that is set over the operations of this Secret Wisdom, to lay his hand 


pg. 49 


Book T 


J: 


4. 


invisibly upon these consecrated cards of art, that thereby we may obtain 
true knowledge of hidden things, to the glory of thine ineffable Name. 
Amen. 

Hand the cards to Querent, and bid him think of the question attentively, 
and cut. 

Take the cards as cut, and hold as for dealing. 


"First Operation" 


This shows the situation of the Querent at the time when he consults you. 


1 
2. 
3. 
4. Find the Significator. It be in the HB:Y pack, the question refers to work, 


Nn 


The pack being in front of you, cut, and place the top half to the left. 
Cut each pack again to the left. 
These four stack represent I H V H, from right to left. 


business, etc.; if in the HB:H pack, to love, marriage, or pleasure; if in the 
HB:H pack, to money, goods, and such purely material matters. 

Tell the Querent what he has come for: if wrong, abandon the divination. 
If right, spread out the pack containing the Significator, face upwards. 
Count the cards from him, in the direction in which he faces. 

The counting should include the card from which you count. 

For Knights, Queens and Princes, count 4. 

For Princesses, count 7. 

For Aces, count 11. 

For small cards, count according to the number. 

For trumps, count 3 for the elemental trumps; 9 for the planetary trumps; 
12 for the Zodiacal trumps. 

Make a "story" of these cards. This story is that of the beginning of the 
affair. 

Pair the cards on either side of the Significator, then those outside them, 
and so on. Make another "story," which should fill in the details omitted in 
the first. 

If this story is not quite accurate, do not be discouraged. Perhaps the 
Querent himself does not know everything. But the main lines ought to be 
laid down firmly, with correctness, or the divination should be abandoned. 


"Second Operation" 


Development of the Question 


pg. 50 


Book T 


Shuffle, invoke suitably, and let Querent cut as before. 
. Deal cards into twelve stacks, for the twelve astrological houses of 
heaven. 

3. Make up your mind in which stack you ought to find the Significator, 
"e.g." in the seventh house if the question concerns marriage, and so on. 

4. Examine this chosen stack. If the Significator is not there, try some 
cognate house. On a second failure, abandon the divination. 

5. Read the stack counting and pairing as before. 


NOK 


"Third Operation" 
Further Development of the Question 


1. Shuffle, etc., as before. 
2. Deal cards into twelve stacks for the twelve signs of the Zodiac. 
3. Divine the proper stack and proceed as before. 


"Fourth Operation" 
Penultimate Aspects of the Question 


1. Shuffle, etc., as before. 

2. Find the Significator: set him upon the table; let the thirty-six cards 
following form a ring round him. 

3. Count and pair as before. 


"Fifth Operation" 
Final Result 


1. Shuffle, etc., as before. 

2. Deal into ten packs in the form of the Tree of Life. 

3. Make up your mind where the Significator should be, as before; but failure 
does not here necessarily imply that the divination has gone astray. 

4. Count and pair as before. 


pg. 51 


