HAROLD  a  L££  1 


ùc 


yt 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2011  with  funding  from 
Brigham  Young  University 


http://www.archive.org/details/tarotofbohemiansOOpapu 


THE  TAEOT  OF  THE  BOHEMIANS. 


ABSOLUTE  KEY  TO  OCCULT  SCIENCE. 


THE  TAROT 

OF   THE   BOHEMIANS. 

THE  MOST  ANCIENT  BOOK  IN  THE  WOELD. 

FOR  THE   EXCLUSIVE    USE   OF   INITIATES. 


By    PAPUS. 


FROM  THE  FRENCH  BY  A.  P.  MORTON. 


ILLUSTRATED  WITH  PLATES  AND  WOODCUTS. 


LONDON: 
GEORGE    REDWAY. 

1896. 


The  Tarot  pack  of  78  Cards,  or  Plates, 
may  be  obtained  on  application  to  the 
Publisher— Mr.  George  Redway,  9 
Hart  Street,  Bloomsbury,  London. 


«MG1UA1  YOCJAG  UNIVERSITY 
W*OVO>  UTAH 


TO 

Cjn  ®ctnli  Stuxttt 

AND 
TO    ALL    ITS    DISCIPLES. 


PREFACE. 

The  Tarot  pack  of  cards,  transmitted  by  the  Gypsies 
from  generation  to  generation,  is  the  primitive  book  of 
ancient  initiation.  This  has  been  clearly  demonstrated 
by  Guillaume  Postel,  Court  de  Gébelin,  Etteila,  Eliphas 
Levi,  and  J.  A.  Vaillant. 

The  key  to  its  construction  and  application  has  not  yet 
been  revealed,  so  far  as  I  know.  I  therefore  wished  to 
fill  up  this  deficiency  by  supplying  Initiates,  i.  e.  those 
who  are  acquainted  with  the  elements  of  occult  science, 
with  an  accurate  guide,  which  would  assist  them  in  the 
pursuit  of  their  studies. 

The  uninitiated  reader  will  find  in  it  the  explanation  of 
the  lofty  philosophy  and  science  of  ancient  Egypt  ;  whilst 
ladies  are  enabled  to  practise  the  use  of  the  divining 
Tarot,  by  methods  which  we  have  rendered  easy  in 
Chapter  XX. 

The  book  has  been  so  arranged  that  each  part  forms 


viii  PREFACE. 

a   complete  whole,   which   can,  if   necessary,  be   studied 

separately. 

I  have  used  every  effort  to  be  as  clear  as  possible  ;  the 

public  that   has  warmly  welcomed  my  other  books  will, 

I  hope,  forgive  the  imperfections  inherent  to  a  work  of 

this  kind. 

PAPUS. 


CONTENTS. 


PART   I. 


It 


THE    "  GENERAL   KEY    TO    THE    TAROT,      GIVING    THE   ABSOLUTE 
KEY    TO    OCCULT    SCIENCE. 


PAGE 


Chap.  I. — Introduction  to  the  Study  of  the  Tarot  : 
Approaching  End  of  Materialism — Synthesis 
— The  Occult  Science — The  Secret  Societies 
— The  Cultus — The  People,  Transmitter  of 
Esoterism — The  Gypsies— The  Sacred  Word 
of  Freemasonry — Our  Work  ...  .,.        3 

IT. — The  Sacred  Word  Yod-He-Yau-He  :  The 
Kabbalah  and  the  Sacred  Word — The  Yod — 
The  He— The  Y  au — The  2nd  He— Synthesis 
of  the  Sacred  Word 17 

III. — The  Esoterism  of  Numbers  :  The  Theosophic 
Numbers  and  Operations — Signification  of 
the  Numbers  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...      26 

IY. — Analogy  between  the  Sacred  Word  and 
Numbers  :  The  Kabbalistic  Word  and  the 
Series  of  Numbers — Explanation  of  the 
Tetractys  of  Pythagoras — Figuration  of  the 
General  Law  ...  ...  ...  ...     32 


CONTENTS. 

CHAP.  PAQK 

V. — The  Key  to  the  Minor  Arcana  :  Formation 
of  the  Tarot — Study  of  a  Colour — The  lour 
Figures — The  Ten  Numbers — Affinity  be- 
tween the  Figures  and  the  Numbers — Study 
of  the  Four  Colours — A  Comprehensive  Glance 
over  the  Minor  Arcana  ...  ...  ...     35' 

VI. — The  Key  to  the  Major  Arcana  :  The  Major 
Arcana — 1st      Ternary — 2nd      Ternary — 1st' 
Septenary — 2nd  Septenary — The  Three  Sep- 
tenaries  and  the  Ternary  of  Transition  ...      51 

VII. — Connection  between  the  Major  and  Minor 
Arcana  :  Domination  of  the  1st  Septenary — 
Affinities  of  the  2nd  Septenary  in  the  Tarot, 
Card  by  Card — Ditto  of  the  3rd  Septenary — 
General  Affinities — Affinities  of  Yod,  He,  Vau, 
and  of  the  2nd  He     ...  ...  ...  ...      61 

General  Figure  giving  the  Key  to  the  Tarot     ...     68 


PAET   II. 


SYMBOLISM  IN  THE  TAROT. 
APPLICATION  OF  THE  GENERAL  KEY  TO  THE  SYMBOLISM. 

VIII. — Introduction  to  the  Study  of  Symbolism  : 
The  Symbols — The  Primitive  Terms — Key  of 
Symbolism — Definition  of  the  Sense  of  one 
of  the  Symbols — General  Law  of  Symbolism     71 

IX. — History  of  the  Symbolism  of  the  Tarot. 
Inquiry  into  its  Origin  :  The  Tarot  is  an 
Egyptian  Book — Its  Transformations — Man- 
tegna's  Pack — Venetian  Tarot — Florentine 
Tarot  —  Bolognese    Tarot  —  Hindu    Tarot — 


CONTENTS.  xi 

CHAP.  PAGE 

Chinese  Tarot — Modem  Tarots — Etteila — 
Marseilles — Besançon  —  Watillaux  —  Oswald 
Wirth — Italian  and  German  Tarots — Consti- 
tution of  the  Symbolism  of  the  Tarot — The 
16  Primitive  Hieroglyphic  Signs — The  22 
Hebrew  Letters  ...  ...  ...  ...     81 

X. — -The  Symbolical  Tarot.  The  1st  Septenary. 
Arcana  l  to  7.  Theogony  :  Scheme  of 
AVork — Key  to  the  1st  Septenary — The  1st 
Card  of  the  Tarot  the  Origin  of  all  the  others 
— The  Three  Principles  of  the  Absolute — 
The  Trinity — Figure  of  the  1st  Card  and  its 
Affinities 

2nd  Card — The  High  Priestess  (Beth) 
3rd  Card — The  Empress  (Gimel) 
4th  Card — The  Emperor  (Daleth) 
5th  Card— The  Pope  (He) 
6th  Card — The  Lovers  (Vau) 
Summary — Constitution  of  God 


96 
112 
115 
119 
123 
127 
132 

133 

135 
138 
142 

10th  Card— The  Wheel  of  Fortune  (Yod)     145 

11th  Card— Strength  (Kaph)         148 

12th  Card— The  Hanged  Man  (Lamed)  ...   151 
Summary — Constitution  of  Man     ...  ...   155 


XL — 2nd  Septenary.     Androgony  :  Key  to  the  2nd 

Septenary 

7th  Card— The  Chariot  (Zain)    ... 

8th  Card— Justice  (Cheth) 

9th  Card— The  Hermit  (Teth)    ... 


XLI. — 3rd    Septenary.       Cosmogony  :    Key    to    t 
3rd   Septenary 

13th  Card— Death  (Mem) 

14th  Card — Temperance  (Nun)    ... 

15th  Card — The  Devil  (Samech) 


ie 


156 
158 
161 
164 


xu 


CONTENTS. 


CHAP. 


Lightning-struck 


Tower 


16th  Card— The 

(Zain)     ... 
17th  Card— The  Star  (Phe) 
18th  Card— The  Moon  (Tzaddi)  ... 
Summary — Constitution  of  the  Universe 

XIII. — General  Transition 

1 9th  Card— The  Sun  (Qoph) 
20th  Card — The  Judgment  (Kesh) 
21st  Card— The  Foolish  Man  (Shin) 
22nd  Card — The  Universe  (Tau)  ... 
Summary 

XIV. — General  Summary  of  the  Symbolical  Tarot  : 

Involution  and  Evolution 

Theogony  :  The  Absolute  according  to 
Wronski,  Lacuria,  and  the  Tarot — Theo- 
gony of  Divers  Religions  identical  with 
that  of  the  Tarot — Summary 

Androgony  :  Figure  with  Summary  ... 

Cosmogony:  Figure  with  Summary  ... 
Figure    containing   the    Symbolism    of   all    the 

Major  Arcana,  enabling  the  Signification  of 

each  Card  to  be  easily  defined       ...     220— 


168 
171 
174 
177 

178 
179 

182 
185 
188 
192 

193 


194 
210 
214 


221 


PART  III. 


applications  of  the  tarot. 

XV. — General  Key  to  the  Applications  of  the 
Tarot  :  The  Principle  and  the  Forms — The 
21st  Card  of  the  Tarot  is  a  Figure-Principle — 
The  Tarot— The  Year— The  Month— The 
Day— The  Human  Life        225 


CONTENTS.  xiii 

CHAP.  PAGE 

XVI. — The  Astronomic  Tarot  :  Egyptian  Astronomy — 
The  Four  Seasons — The  Twelve  Months — 
The  Thirty-six  Decani — The  Planets — Abso- 
lute Analogy  with  the  Tarot — Figure  contain- 
ing the  Application  of  the  Tarot  to  Astron- 
omy— Key  to  the  Astrological  Works  of  Chris- 
tian— Oswald  Wirth's  Astronomical  Tarot         233 

XVII. — The  Initiative  Tarot  :  Ch.  Barlet's  Essay  on 
this  Subject — Involution  and  Evolution — The 
Hours  of  Apollonius  of  Tyana — The  Phases 
of  Initiation  represented  by  the  Tarot  ...    253 

Barlet's  Work  upon  the  Cosmogonic  Tarot    ...   253 

XVIII. — The  Kabbalistic  Tarot  :  Deductions  by  Etteila 
upon  the  Booh  of  Thoth — Example  of  the 
Application  of  the  Tarot  to  the  Kabbalah,  the 
Hierogram  of  Adam  by  Stanislas  de  Guaita  291 

XIX.  —The  Authors  who  have  interested  themselves 
in  the  Tarot  :  Eaymond  Lulle — Cardan — 
Postel — The  Rosicrucians — Court  de  Gébelin 
— Etteila — Claude  de  Saint-Martin — J.  A. 
Vaillant — Christian — Eliphas  Levi — St.  de 
Guaita — Joséphin  Péladan — The  Platonist — 
Theosophical  Publications — F.  Ch.  Barlet — 
0.  Wirth— Poirel— Ely  Star— H.  P.  Blavatsky 
—Ch.de  Sivry— Mathers 297 

XX. — The     Divining    Tarot    in     Seven    Lessons. 
Introduction:    To    our    Lady    Readers — As- 
tronomy and  Astrology — Intuition — Fortune- 
telling  by  the  Tarot  in  Seven  Lessons  ...   301 
1st  Lesson — Simplification  of  the  Rules  of 
Fortune-telling  by  the  Tarot      ...  ...   305 

2nd  Lesson — Minor    Arcana — Signification 


xiv  CONTENTS. 

CHAP.  PAGE 

— A  good  Memory  unnecessary  for  their 
retention — Key  to  the  Divining  Tarot  . . .   307 

3rd  Lesson — Major  Arcana — Signification 
from  a  Divining  Point  of  View  ...   316 

4//i  Lesson — Basis  of  the  Application  of 
this  Knowledge — Arrangement  of  the 
Cards      318 

5th  Lesson — Eeading  the  Tarot — Rapid 
Process — Elaborate  Process       ...  ...   322 

QtJi  Lesson — Etteila's  original  and  un- 
published Method  of  reading  the  Tarot 
(from  one  of  his  rarest  works).  1st  Deal 
—2nd  Deal— 3rd  Deal— 4th  Deal        ...   327 

7th  Lesson — Conclusion — 'Bibliography   ...   333 

XXL — Application  of  the  Tarot  to  Games  :  The 
Royal  Game  of  the  Human  Life  according 
to  the  Egyptians — The  Unity  of  Games  in 
the  Tarot        ...  ...  ...  ...  ...   335 

XXII. — Conclusion  of  the  Work         ...         ...         ...  343 

Index      ...         ...         ...         ...         ...         ...  349 

Table  of  the  Authors  and  Principal  Works 

quoted  ...         ...         ...         ...  ..  353 


INTRODUCTION 


TO 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  TAROT. 


THE    TABOT. 

CHAPTER  I. 

INTRODUCTION  TO  THE  STUDY  OF  THE  TAROT. 

Approaching  End  of  Materialism — Synthesis — The  Occult  Science — 
The  Secret  Societies — The  Cultus — The  People,  Organ  of  the 
Transmission  of  Esoterism — The  Gypsies — The  Sacred  Word 
of  Freemasonry — Our  Work. 

"  Therefore  you  must  open  the  book  and  carefully  weigh  the  statements  made 
in  it.  Then  you  will  know  that  the  drug  within  is  of  very  different  value  from 
the  promise  of  the  box,  that  is  to  say,  that  the  subjects  treated  in  it  are  riot 
so  frivolous  as  the  title  may  imply." — Rabelais. 

We  are  on  the  eve  of  a  complete  transformation  of  our 
scientific  methods.  Materialism  has  given  us  all  that  we 
can  expect  from  it,  and  inquirers,  disappointed  as  a  rule, 
hope  for  great  things  from  the  future,  whilst  they  are 
unwilling  to  spend  more  time  in  pursuing  the  path 
adopted  in  modern  times.  Analysis  has  been  carried,  in 
every  branch  of  knowledge,  as  far  as  possible,  and  has 
only  deepened  the  moats  which  divide  the  sciences. 

Synthesis  becomes  necessary  ;  but  how  can  we  realize  it  ? 

If  we  would  condescend  to  waive  for  one  moment  our 
belief  in  the  indefinite  progress  and  fatal  superiority  of 


4  THE   TAROT. 

later  generations  over  the  ancients,  we  should  at  once  per- 
ceive that  the  colossal  civilizations  of  antiquity  possessed 
Science,  Universities,  and  Schools. 

India  and  Egypt  are  still  strewn  with  valuable  remains, 
which  reveal  to  archaeologists  the  existence  of  this  ancient 
science. 

We  are  now  in  a  position  to  affirm  that  the  dominant 
character  of  this  teaching  was  synthesis,  which  condenses 
in  a  few  very  simple  laws  the  whole  of  the  acquired 
knowledge. 

But  the  use  of  synthesis  had  been  almost  entirely  lost, 
through  several  causes,  which  it  is  important  to  enumerate. 

Amongst  the  ancients,  knowledge  was  only  transmitted 
to  men  whose  worth  had  been  proved  by  a  series  of  tests. 
This  transmittal  took  place  in  the  temples,  under  the 
name  of  mysteries,  and  the  adept  assumed  the  title  of 
priest  or  Initiate.1  This  science  was  therefore  secret  or 
occult,  and  thus  originated  the  name  of  occult  science,  given 
by  our  contemporaries  to  the  ancient  synthesis. 

Another  reason  for  the  limited  diffusion  of  the  higher 
branches  of  knowledge,  was  the  length  and  difficulty  of 
the  journeys  involved  before  the  most  important  centres 
of  initiation  could  be  reached. 

However,  when  the  Initiates  found  that  a  time  was 
approaching  when  these  doctrines  might  be  lost  to 
humanity,  they  made  strenuous  efforts  to  save  the  law 
of  synthesis  from  oblivion.  Three  great  methods  were 
used  for  this  purpose — 

1.  Secret  societies,  a  direct  continuation  of  the  mysteries  ; 

2.  The  cultus,  a  symbolic  translation  of  the  higher 
doctrines,  for  the  use  of  the  people  ; 

1  See  Jamblichus,  Porphyry,  and  Apuleius. 


INTRODUCTION.  5 

S.  Lastly,  the  people  itself  became  the  unconscious 
depository  of  the  doctrine. 

Let  us  now  see  what  use  each  of  these  groups  made  of 
the  treasure  confided  to  it. 


THE  SECRET  SOCIETIES. 

The  school  of  Alexandria  was  the  principal  source  from 
which  the  secret  societies  of  the  West  arose. 

The  majority  of  the  Initiates  had  taken  refuse  in  the 
East,  and  quite  recently  (in  1884)  the  West  discovered 
the  existence  in  India,  and  above  all  in  Thibet,  of  an 
occult  fraternity,  which  possessed,  practically,  the  ancient 
synthesis  in  its  integrity.  The  Theosophite  Society  was 
founded  with  the  object  of  uniting  Western  initiation  with 
Oriental  initiation. 

But  we  are  less  interested  in  the  existence  of  this 
doctrine  in  the  East,  than  in  the  history  of  the  develop- 
ment of  the  initiative  societies  in  the  West. 

The  Gnostic  sects,  the  Arabs,  Alchemists,  Templars, 
Rosicrucians,  and  lastly  the  Freemasons,  form  the  Western 
chain  in  the  transmission  of  occult  science. 

A  rapid  glance  over  the  doctrines  of  these  associations 
is  sufficient  to  prove  that  the  present  form  of  Freemasonry 
has  almost  entirely  lost  the  meanings  of  the  traditional 
symbols,  which  constitute  the  trust  which  it  ought  to 
have  transmitted  through  the  ages. 

The  elaborate  ceremonials  of  the  ritual  appear  ridiculous 
to  the  vulgar  common  sense  of  a  lawyer  or  grocer,  the 
actual  modern  representatives  of  the  profound  doctrines 
of  antiquity. 


6  THE   TAEOT. 

We  must,  however,  make  some  exceptions  in  favour  of 
great  thinkers,  like  Ragon  and  a  few  others. 

In  short,  Freemasonry  has  lost  the  doctrine  confided 
to  it,  and  cannot  by  itself  provide  us  with  the  synthetic 
law  for  which  we  are  seeking. 


THE  CULTUS. 

The  secret  societies  were  to  transmit  in  their  symbolism 
the  scientific  side  of  primitive  initiation,  the  religious  sects 
were  to  develop  the  philosophical  and  metaphysical  aspects 
of  the  doctrine.  I 

Every  priest  of  an  ancient  creed  was  one  of  the  Initiates, 
that  is  to  say,  he  knew  perfectly  well  that  only  one 
religion  existed,  and  that  the  cultus  merely  served  to 
translate  this  religion  to  the  different  nations  according; 
to  their  particular  temperaments.  This  fact  led  to  one 
important  result,  namely,  that  a  priest,  no  matter  which 
of  the  gods  he  served,  was  received  with  honour  in  the 
temples  of  all  the  other  gods,  and  was  allowed  to  offer 
sacrifice  to  them.  Yet  this  circumstance  must  not  be 
supposed  to  imply  any  idea  of  polytheism.  The  Jewish 
High  Priest  in  Jerusalem  received  one  of  the  Initiates, 
Alexander  the  Great,  into  the  Temple,  and  led  him  into 
the  Holy  of  Holies,  to  offer  sacrifice. 

Our  religious  disputes  for  the  supremacy  of  one  creed 
over  another  would  have  caused  much  amusement  to  one 
of  the  ancient  Initiate  priests  ;  they  were  unable  to  suppose 
that  intelligent  men  could  ignore  the  unity  of  all  creeds 
in  one  fundamental  religion. 

Sectarianism,  chiefly  sustained  by  two  creeds,  equally 


INTRODUCTION.  7 

blinded  by  their  errors,  the  Christian  and  the  Mussulman, 
was  the  cause  of  the  total  loss  of  the  secret  doctrine,  which 
gave  the  key  to  Synthetic  Unity. 

Still  greater  labour  is  required  to  re-discover  Synthesis 
in  our  Western  religions,  than  to  find  it  in  Freemasonry. 

The  Jews  alone  possessed,  no  longer  the  spirit,  but  the 
letter  of  their  oral  or  Kabbalistic  traditions.  The  Bible, 
written  in  Hebrew,  is  marvellous  from  this  point  of  view, 
for  it  contains  all  the  occult  traditions,  although  its  true 
sense  has  never  yet  been  revealed.  Fabre  d'Olivet  com- 
menced this  prodigious  work,  but  the  ignorant  descendants 
of  the  Inquisition  at  Rome  have  placed  these  studies  on 
the  list  of  those  prohibited.1     Posterity  will  judge  them. 

Yet  every  cultus  has  its  tradition,  its  book,  its  Bible, 
which  teach  those  who  know  how  to  read  them  the 
unity  of  all  creeds,  in  spite  of  the  difference  existing  in 
the  ritual  of  various  countries. 

The  Sepher  Bcrescliit  of  Moses  is  the  Jewish  Bible,  the 
Apocalypse  and  the  Esoteric  Gospels  form  the  Christian 
Bible,  the  Legend  of  Hiram  is  the  Bible  of  Freemasonry, 
the  Odyssey  the  Bible  of  the  so-called  polytheism  of 
Greece,  the  JEncid  that  of  Rome,  and  lastly  the  Hindib 
Vedas  and  the  Mussulman  Koran  are  well  known  to  all 
students  of  ancient  theology. 

To  any  one  possessing  the  key,  all  these  Bibles  reveal 
the  same  doctrine  ;  but  this  key,  which  can  open  Esoterism, 
is  lost  by  the  sectarians  of  our  Western  creeds.  It  is 
therefore  useless  to  seek  for  it  any  longer  amongst  them. 

1  See  Fabre  d'Olivet,  La  Langue  Hébraïque  Restituée. 


THE  TAROT. 


THE   PEOPLE. 

The  Sages  were  under  no  illusions  respecting  the 
possible  future  of  the  tradition,  which  they  confided  to 
the  intelligence  and  virtue  of  future  generations. 

Moses    had    chosen    a   people    to    hand    down    through 

succeeding  a^es  the  book  which  contained  all  the  science 
©     © 

of  Egypt  ;  but  before  Moses,  the  Hindu  Initiates  had 
selected  a  nation  to  hand  down  to  the  generations  of  the 
future  the  primitive  doctrines  of  the  great  civilizations 
of  the  Atlantides. 

The  people  have  never  disappointed  the  expectations 
of  those  who  trusted  it.  Understanding  none  of  the 
truths  which  it  possessed,  it  carefully  abstained  from 
altering  them  in  any  way,  and  treated  the  least  attack 
made  upon  them  as  sacrilege. 

Thus  the  Jews  have  transmitted  intact  to  us  the  letters 
which  form  the  Sepher  of  Moses.  But  Moses  had  not 
solved  the  problem  so  authoritatively  as  the  Thibetans. 

It  was  a  great  thing  to  give  the  people  a  book  which 
it  could  adore  respectfully,  and  always  guard  intact  ;  but 
to  give  it  a  book  which  would  enable  it  to  live,  was  yet 
better. 

The  people  intrusted  with  the  transmission  of  occult 
doctrines  from  the  earliest  ages  was  the  Bohemian  or 
Gypsy  race. 

THE   GYPSIES. 

The  Gypsies  possess  a  Bible,  which  has  proved  their 
means  of  gaining  a  livelihood,  for  it  enables  them  to  tell 


INTRODUCTION.  9 

fortunes  ;  at  the  same  time  it  has  been  a  perpetual  source 
of  amusement,  for  it  enables  them  to  gamble. 

Yes  ;  the  game  of  cards  called  the  Tarot,  which  the 
Gypsies  possess,  is  the  Bible  of  Bibles.  It  is  the  book  of 
Thoth  Hermes  Trismegistus,  the  book  of  Adam,  the  book 
of  the  primitive  Revelation  of  ancient  civilizations. 

Thus  whilst  the  Freemason,  an  intelligent  and  virtuous 
man,  has  lost  the  tradition;  whilst  the  priest,  also  intelligent 
and  virtuous,  has  lost  his  esoterism  ;  the  Gypsy,  although 
both  ignorant  and  vicious,  has  given  us  the  key  which 
enables  us  to  explain  all  the  symbolism  of  the  ages. 

We  must  admire  the  wisdom  of  the  Initiates,  who 
utilized  vice  and  made  it  produce  more  bénéficiai  results 
than  virtue. 

The  Gypsy  pack  of  cards  is  a  wonderful  book  according 
to  Court  de  Gébelin1  and  Vaillant.2  This  pack,  under 
the  name  of  Tarot,3  Thora,4  Rota,5  has  formed  the  basis 
of  the  synthetic  teachings  of  all  the  ancient  nations 
successively.6 

In  it,  where  a  man  of  the  people  only  sees  a  means  of 
amusement,  the  thinker  will  find  the  key  to  an  obscure 
tradition.  Raymond  Lulle  has  based  his  Ars  Magna 
upon  the  Tarot;  Jerome  Cardan  has  written  a  treatise 
upon  subtility  from  the  keys  of  the  Tarot;7  Guillaume 
Postel  has  found  in  it  the  key  to  the  ancient  mysteries  ; 
whilst     Louis-Claude    de     Saint- Martin,    the    unknown 

1  Court  de  Gébelin. — Le  Monde  Primitif. 

2  Vaillant. — Les  Homes,  Histoire  des  Bohémiens. 

3  Eliphas  Levi.—  Rituel  de  la  Haute  Magie. 

4  Vaillant.— Op.  cit. 

5  Guillaume  Poste). — Clavis. 
c  Vaillant. — Loc.  cit. 

7  Eliphas  Levi. — Op.  cit. 


10  THE   TAROT. 

philosopher,  finds  written  in  it  the  mysterious  links  which 
unite  God,  the  Universe,  and  Man  ! 

Through  the  Tarot  we  are  now  able  to  discover  and 
develop  the  synthetic  law,  concealed  in  all  these 
symbolisms. 

The  hour  is  approaching  when  the  missing  word  will 
be  refound.  Masters,  Rosicrucian  and  Kadosh,  you  who 
form  the  sacred  triangle  of  Masonic  initiation,  do  you 
remember  ! 

30th 
—  Knight  Kadosh  — 


Master _^      Rosicrucian 

3rd  ISth 

Remember,  Master,  that  illustrious  man,  killed  through 
the  most  cowardly  of  conspiracies  ;  remember  Hiram, 
whose  resurrection,  promised  by  the  Branch  of  Acacia, 
thou  art  looking  for  in  faith  ! 

Remember,  Rosicrucian,  the  mysterious  vjord  which 
thou  hast  sought  for  so  long,  of  which  the  meaning  still 
escapes  thee  ! 

Remember,  Kadosh,  the  magnificent  symbol  which 
radiated  from  the  centre  of  the  luminous  triangle,  wdien 
the  real  meaning  of  the  letter  G  was  revealed  to  thee  ! 

HIRAM— INRI— YOD-HE-V AU-HE  !  indicate  the 
same  mystery  under  different  aspects. 

He  who  understands  one  of  these  words  possesses  the 
key  which  opens  the   tomb  of  Hiram,  the  symbol  of  the 


INTRODUCTION 


11 


synthetic  science  of  the  Ancients  ;  be  can  open  the  tomb 
and  fearlessly  grasp  the  heart  of  the  revered  Master,  the 
symbol  of  esoteric  teaching. 

The    whole    Tarot   is   based    upon    this   word,   ROTA, 


arranged  as  a  wheel. 


T 

yod 

(i) 


A  he  (N) 


(I)  lie  0 


(R) 
vau 
(R) 


INRI  !  is  the  word  which  indicates  the  Unity  of  your 
origin,  Freemasons  and  Catholics  ! 

Igne  Natura  Benovatur  Integra. 

Iesus  Nazareus  Bex  Iudeorum  are  the  opposite  poles, 
scientific  and  religious,  physical  and  metaphysical,  of  the 
same  doctrine. 

YOD-HE-VAU-HE  QTBT)  is  the  word  which  indicates 
to  you  both,  Freemasons  and  Kabbalists,  the  Unity  of  your 
origin.  TAROT,  THORA,  ROTA  are  the  words  which 
point  out  to  you  all,  Easterns  and  Westerns,  the  Unity  of 
your  requirements  and  of  your  aspirations  in  the  eternal 


12  THE   TAROT. 

Adam-Eve,  the  source  of  all  our  knowledge  and  of  all  our 
creeds. 

All  honour,  therefore,  to  the  Gypsy  Nomad,  to  whom 
we  are  indebted  for  the  preservation  of  this  marvellous 
instrument,  the  synthetic  summary  of  the  whole  teaching 
of  antiquity. 


OUR   WORK. 

We  will  commence  by  a  preliminary  study  of  the 
elements  of  the  Kabbalah  and  of  numbers. 

Supplied  with  these  data,  we  will  explain  the  construc- 
tion of  the  Tarot  in  all  its  details,  studying  separately  each 
of  the  pieces  which  compose  our  machine,  then  studying 
the  action  of  these  pieces  upon  each  other.  Upon  this 
point  we  shall  be  as  explicit  as  possible.  We  will  then 
touch  upon  some  applications  of  the  machine,  but  upon 
a  few  only,  leaving  to  the  genuine  inquirer  the  work  of 
discovering  others.  We  must  confine  our  personal  work 
to  giving  a  key,  based  upon  a  synthetic  formula  ;  we  can 
only  supply  the  implement  of  labour,  in  order  that  those 
who  wish  for  knowledge  may  use  it  as  they  like  ;  and  we 
feel  assured  that  they  will  understand  the  utility  of  our 
efforts  and  of  their  own. 

Lastly,  we  will  do  our  best  to  explain  the  elements  of 
divination  by  the  Tarot  as  practised  by  the  Gypsies. 

But  those  who  think  that  occult  science  should  not  be 
revealed  must  not  be  too  angry  with  us.  Experience  has 
taught  us  that  everything  may  be  fearlessly  said,  those 
only  who  should  understand  can  understand  ;  the  others  will 
accuse  our  work  of  being  obscure  and  incomprehensible. 


INTRODUCTION.  13 

We  have  warned  them  by  placing  at  the  head  of  our 
work — 

For  the  exclusive  use  of  Initiates. 

It  is  one  characteristic  of  the  study  of  true  occult 
science,  that  it  may  be  freely  explained  to  all  men.  Like 
the  parables,  so  dear  to  the  ancients,  it  appears  to  many 
only  the  expression  of  the  flight  of  a  bold  imagination  : 
we  need,  therefore,  never  be  afraid  of  speaking  too  openly, 
the  Word  will  only  reach  those  who  should  be  touched 
by  it. 

To  you  all,  philosophers  of  Unity,  enemies  of  scientific, 
social,  and  religious  sectarianism,  I  now  address  myself,  to 
you  I  dedicate  this  result  of  several  years'  study.  May  I 
thus  aid  in  the  erection  of  the  temple  which  you  are  about 
to  raise  to  the  honour  of  the  Unknown  God,  from  whom 
all  the  others  emanate  throughout  Eternity  ! 


V 


PART  I. 

GENERAL  KEY  TO  THE  TAROT, 

GIVING  THE   ABSOLUTE   KEY  TO   OCCULT  SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER  II. 

mm 

THE    SACRED   WORD    YOD-HE-VAU-HE. 

The  Kabbalah  and  the  Sacred  Word— The  Yod— The  He— The  Van 
— The  second  He — Synthesis  of  the  Sacred  Word. 

According  to  the  ancient  oral  tradition  of  the  Hebrews, 
or  Kabbalah,1  a  sacred  word  exists,  which  gives  to  the 
mortal  who  can  discover  the  correct  way  of  pronouncing  it, 
the  key  to  all  the  sciences,  divine  and  human.  This  word, 
which  the  Israelites  never  uttered,  and  which  the  High 
Priest  pronounced  once  a  year,  amidst  the  shouts  of  the 
laity,  is  found  at  the  head  of  every  initiative  ritual,  it- 
radiates  from  the  centre  of  the   flaming  triangle  at  the 

1  "It  appears,  according  to  the  most  famous  rabbis,  that  Moses 
himself,  foreseeing  the  fate  which  awaited  his  book,  and  the  falsi; 
interpretations  which  would  be  given  to  it  in  the  course  of  time, 
resorted  to  an  oral  law,  which  he  delivered  verbally  to  reliable  men, 
whose  fidelity  he  had  tested,  and  whom  he  charged  to  transmit  it  to 
others  in  the  secret  of  the  sanctuary,  who  in  their  turn,  transmitting 
it  from  age  to  age,  secured  its  preservation  even  for  the  most  distant 
posterity.  This  oral  law,  which  modern  Jews  still  flatter  themselves' 
that  they  possess,  is  called  the  Kabbalah,  from  a  Hebrew  word  which 
signifies  that  which  is  received,  that  which  comes  from  elsewhere, 
that  which  passes  from  hand  to  hand." — Fabre  d'Olivet,  La  Langue 
Hébraïque  Restituée,  p.  29. 

c 


18  THE   TAROT. 

33rd  degree  of  the  Freemasonry  of  Scotland,  it  is  displayed 
above  the  gateways  of  our  old  cathedrals,  is  formed  of  four 
Hebrew  letters,  and  reads  thus,  Yod-he-vau-he,  TWVk 

It  is  used  in  the  Sepher  Bercschit,  or  Genesis  of  Moses, 
to  designate  the  divinity,  and  its  grammatical  construction 
recalls  even  by  its  formation  1  the  attributes  which  men 
have  always  delighted  to  ascribe  to  God.  Now  we  shall 
see  that  the  powers  attributed  to  this  word  are  real  up  to 
a  certain  point,  for  with  its  aid  the  symbolical  gate  of  the 
arch,  which  contains  the  explanation  of  the  whole  doctrine 
of  ancient  science,  is  easily  opened.  It  is  therefore  necessary 
to  enter  into  some  detail  respecting  it. 

The  word  is  formed  of  four  letters,  Yod  C),  he  (n), 
van,  p),  he  (il).     This  last  letter  he  is  repeated  twice. 

À  number  is  attributed  to  each  letter  of  the  Hebrew 
alphabet.  We  must  look  at  those  which  relate  to  the 
letters  we  are  now  considering. 


> 

Yôd    = 

=    10 

n 

he 

=      5 

i 

vau    = 

;       6 

1  "This  name  presents  first  the  sign  which  indicates  life,  repeated 
twice,  and  thus  forming  the  essentially  living  root  EE  (HiT).  This 
root  is  never  used  as  a  noun,  and  is  the  only  one  which  enjoys  this 
prerogative.  It  is  from  its  formation  not  only  a  verb,  but  a  unique 
verb,  from  which  ail  the  others  are  merely  derivations  ;  in  short,  the 
verb  mn  (EVE),  to  be,  being.  Here,  as  we  can  see,  and  as  I  have 
carefully  explained  in  my  grammar,  the  sign  of  intelligible  light  1 
(VO)  is  placed  in  the  midst  of  the  root  of  life.  Moses,  when  using 
this  unique  verb  to  form  the  proper  name  of  the  Being  of  Beings, 
added  to  it  the  sign  of  potential  manifestation  and  of  eternity,  ^  (I)  ; 
he  thus  obtained  mrP  (IEVE),  in  which  the  facultative  Being  is 
placed  between  a  past  tense  without  origin,  and  a  future  without 
limit.  This  admirable  word  thus  exactly  signifies  the  Being  who  is, 
who  was,  and  who  will  be." — Fabre  d'Olivet,  La  Langue  Hébraïque 
Restituée. 


THE    SACRED   WORD   YOD-HE-VAU-HE.  19 

The  total  numerical  value  of  the  word  mrp  is  therefore 

10  +  5  +  6   +  5  =  26. 
Let  us  now  study  each  letter  separately. 

THE   YOD. 

The  Yod,  shaped  like  a  comma  or  a  dot,  represents  the 
principle  or  origin  of  all  things. 

The  other  letters  of  the  Hebrew  alphabet  are  all  pro- 
duced by  different  combinations  of  the  letter  Yod}  The 
synthetic  study  of  nature  had  led  the  ancients  to  conclude 
that  one  law  only  existed,  and  ruled  all  natural  productions. 
This  law,  the  basis  of  analogy,  placed  the  Unity-principle 
at  the  origin  of  all  things,  and  regarded  them  as  the 
reflections  at  various  degrees  of  this  Unity-principle.  Thus 
the  Yod,  which  alone  forms  all  the  other  letters,  and  there- 
fore all  the  words  and  all  the  phrases  of  the  alphabet,  was 
justly  used  as  the  image  and  representation  of  this  Unity- 
principle,  of  which  the  profane  had  no  knowledge. 

Thus  the  law  which  presided  over  the  creation  of  the 
Hebrew  language  is  the  same  law  that  presided  over  the 
creation  of  the  Universe,  and  to  know  the  one  is  to  know 
the  other,  unreservedly.  ^  The  Sepher  Yetzircch,2  one  of  the 
most  ancient  books  of  the  Kabbalah,  proves  this  fact. 

Before  proceeding  any  further,  let  us  illustrate  the 
definition  which  we  have  just  given  of  the  Yod  by  an 
example.  The  first  letter  of  the  Hebrew  alphabet,  the 
aleph  (S),  is  composed  of  four  yods  placed  opposite  to  each 
other  ;  the  other  letters  are  all  formed  on  the  same  basis.3 

1  See  the  Kabbala  D&nudaia. 

8  Translated  into  English  by  Dr.  Wynn  \Yestcott. 

3  See  the  Kabbala  Denudata. 


20  THE   TAROT. 

The  numerical  value  of  the  yod  leads  to  other  consider- 
ations. The  Unity-principle,  according  to  the  doctrine  of 
the  Kabbalists,  is  also  the  Unitv-end  of  beings  and  of 
things,  so  that  eternity,  from  this  point  of  view,  is  only  an 
eternal  present.  The  ancients  used  a  dot  in  the  centre  of 
a  circle  as  the  symbol  of  this  idea,  the  representation  of 
the  Unity-principle  {the  dot)  in  the  centre  of  eternity  (the 
circle,  a  line  without  beginning  or  end).1 


According  to  these  demonstrations,  the  Unity  is  regarded 
as  the  whole,  of  which  all  created  beings  are  only  the  con- 
stituent parts;  just  as  the  Unity-man  is  formed  of  an 
agglomeration  of  molecules,  which  compose  his  being. 

The  Kabbalah,  therefore,  places  at  the  origin  of  all  things 
the  absolute  assertion  of  the  being  by  itself  of  the  Ego- 
Unity,  which  is  represented  by  the  yod  symbolically,  and 
by  the  number  10.  This  number  10,  representing  the  All- 
principle  1,  with  the  Zero-nothing  0,  well  supplies  the 
requisite  conditions.2 

1  See  Kirclier,  Œiipus  JEquptiacus  ; 

,,    Lenain,  La  Science  Kabbalistique  ; 
,.    J.  Dee,  Monas  Hieroglyph  tea. 

2  See  Saint-Mnrtin,  Des  rapports  qui  existent  entre  Dieu,  V  Homme 

et  V  Univers. 

A 

,,    Lacuna,  Harmonies  de  VEtre  exprimées  par  les  nombres. 


THE   SACRED  WORD   YOD-HE-VAU-HE.  21 


THE   HE.1 

But  the  Ego  cannot  be  realized  except  through  its 
opposition  to  the  Non-Ego.  The  assertion  of  the  Ego  is 
scarcely  established,  when  we  must  instantly  realize  a 
reaction  of  the  Ego,  Absolute,  upon  itself,  from  which  the 
conception  of  its  existence  will  be  drawn,  by  a  kind  of 
division  of  the  Unity.  This  is  the  origin  of  duality,  of 
opposition,  of  the  Binary,  the  image  of  femininity,  even  as 
the  Unity  is  the  image  of  the  masculine.     Ten,  divided 

by  itself,  in  opposition  to  itself,  then  equals  -g-  ==  5,  five, 

the  exact  number  of  the  letter  He,  the  second  letter  of  the 
great  sacred  name. 

The  He  therefore  represents  the  passive  in  relation  to 
the  Yod,  which  symbolizes  the  active;  the  Non-Ego  in 
relation  to  the  Ego,  the  woman  relatively  to  the  man; 
the  substance  relatively  to  the  essence  ;  life  in  its  relation 
to  the  soul,  &c,  &c. 


THE   VAU.2 

But  the  opposition  of  the  Ego  and  the  Non-Ego  imme- 
diately gives  rise  to  another  factor  ;  this  is  the  Affinity 
existing  between  this  Ego  and  this  Non-Ego. 

Now  the  Vau,  the  sixth  letter  of  the  Hebrew  alphabet, 
produced  by  10  (yod)  +  5  (he)  =  15  =  6  (or  1  +  5), 
signifies  link  or  analogy.     It  is  the  link  which,  uniting 

1  See  Eliphas  Levi,  Dogme  et  Rituel  de  la  Hante  Magie  ;  la  Clef  des 
Grands  Mystères; — Lacuria,  op.  cit. 

2  See  Fabre  d' Olivet,  La  Langue  Hébraïque  Restituée. 


22  THE   TAROT. 

antagonisms  in  the  whole  of  nature,  constitutes  the  third 
word  of  this  mysterious  Trinity. 

Ego — Non-Ego. 

Affinity  of  the  Ego  with  the  Non-Ego. 


THE    2ND    HE. 

Nothing  can  exist  beyond  this  Trinity,  considered  as 
a  law. 

The  Trinity  is  the  synthetic  and  absolute  formula  to 
which  all  the  sciences  converge  ;  and  this  formula,  forgotten 
with  regard  to  its  scientific  value,  has  been  transmitted  to 
us  integrally,  by  all  the  religions  of  the  world,  the  uncon- 
scious depositaries  of  the  Science  Wisdom  of  primitive 
civilizations.1 

Thus  the  great  sacred  name  is  formed  of  three  letters 
only.  The  fourth  term  of  the  name  is  formed  by  the 
repetition  of  the  second  letter,  the  He. 

This  repetition  indicates  the  passage  of  the  Trinitarian 
law  into  a  new  application;  that  is,  to  speak  correctly, 
a  transition  from  the  metaphysical  to  the  physical  world, 
or  generally,  of  any  world  whatever  to  the  world  that 
immediately  follows  it.2 

The  knowledge  of  the  property  of  the  second  He  is  the 

1  See  Louis  Lucas,  Le  Roman  alchimique. 

"  Prœter  hœc  tria  mimera  non  est  alia  magnitudo,  quod  tria  sunt 
omnia,  et  ter  undecunque,  ut  pythagorici  dicunt;  omne  et  omnia  tribus 
determinata  sunt." — Aristotle.  (Quoted  by  Ostrowski,  page  24  of 
his  Mathèse.  ) 

2  Ostrowski  has  seen  this  clearly.  "  The  passage  of  3  in  4  corre- 
sponds to  that  of  the  Trimurti  in  Maïa,  and  as  the  latter  opens  the 
second  ternary  of  the  pregenesetic  decade,  so  the  figure  4  opens  that 
of  the  second  ternary  of  our  genesetic  decimal." — Mathèse,  p.  25. 


THE   SACRED   WORD   YOD-HE-VAU-HE.  23 

key  to  the  whole  divine  name,  in  every  application  of 
which  it  is  susceptible.  We  shall  presently  see  the  'proof 
of  this  statement. 


SUMMARY   UPON   THE   WORD    YOD-HE-VAU-HE. 

Now  that  we  have  separately  studied  each  of  the  letters 
that  compose  the  sacred  name,  we  will  apply  the  law  of 
synthesis  to  them,  and  sum  up  the  results  obtained. 

The  word  Yod-he-vau-he  is  formed  of  four  letters,  signi- 
fying: 

The  Tod     The  active  principle  pre-eminent. 
The  Ego  =  10. 

The  He       The  passive  principle  pre-eminent. 
The  Non-Ego  =  5. 

The  Van     The  Median  letter,  the  link,  which  unites  the 
active  to  the  passive. 
The  Affinity  between  the  Ego  and  the  Non- 
Ego  =  6. 

These  three  letters  express  the  Trinitarian  law  of  the 
Absolute. 

The  2nd  He     The  second  He  marks  the  passage  from  one 
world  to  another.     The  Transition. 

This  second  He  represents  the  complete  Being,  com- 
prising in  one  Absolute  Unity  the  three  letters  which 
compose  it  :  Ego,  Non-Ego,  Affinity. 

It  indicates  the  passage  from  the  noumenal  tc  the 
phenomenal  or  reciprocal  ;  it  serves  as  means  of  ascension 
from  one  scale  to  another. 


24 


THE  TAEOT. 


REPRESENTATION   OF   THE   SACRED   WORD. 

The  word   Yod-he-vau-he  can  be  represented  in  various 
ways,  which  are  all  useful. 

The  circle  can  be  drawn  in  this  way — 

yod 


1st  he 

n 


2nd  he 

n 


vau 
1 

But  since  the  second  He,  the  sign  of  transition,  becomes 
the  active  entity  in  the  following  scale,  i.  e.  since  this  He 
only  represents  a  yod  in  germ,1  the  sacred  word  can  be 
represented,  with  the  second  lie  under  the  first  yod, 
thus — 

yod         1st  lie         vau 
2nd  he 

Lastly,  a  third  method  of  representing  the  word  consists 
in  enveloping  the  Trinity,  Yod-he-vcm,  with  the  tonalisating 
letter,  or  second  He,  thus — 

2nd  he 


2nd  he 


2nd  he 


2nd  he 

1  The  second   He,  upon  which  we  are  intentionally  dwelling  at 
some  length,  may  be  compared  to  a  grain  of  wheat  relatively  to  the 


THE   SACRED   WORD   YOD-HE-VAU-HE.  25 

Now  we  will  leave  these  data,  to  which  we  must  return 
later  on,  and  speak  of  the  occult  or  Pythagorean  conception 
of  numbers. 

ear.  The  ear,  the  Trinity,  manifest  or  '  yod-he-vau,  exerts  all  its 
activity  in  the  production  of  the  grain  of  wheat,  or  second  He.  But 
this  grain  of  wheat  is  only  the  transition  between  the  ear  which 
gave  it  birth,  and  the  ear  to  which  it  will  itself  give  birth  in  the 
following  generation.  It  is  the  transition  between  one  generation 
and  another  which  it  contains  in  germ  ;  this  is  why  the  second  He  is 
a  Yod  in  germ. 


CHAPTER  III. 

THE    ESOTERISM    OF   NUMBERS. 

The   Theosophic    Numbers    and    Operations  —  Signification   of    the 

Numbers. 

The  Numbers. 

The  ancients  had  a  conception  of  numbers  which  is 
almost  lost  in  modern  times. 

The  idea  of  the  Unity  in  all  its  manifestations  led  to 
numbers  being  considered  as  the  expression  of  absolute 
laws.  This  led  to  the  veneration  expressed  for  the  3  or  for 
the  4  throughout  antiquity,  which  is  so  incomprehensible 
to  our  mathematicians. 

It  is  however  evident  that  if  the  ancients  had  not 
known  how  to  work  any  other  problems  than  those  we 
now  use,  nothing  could  have  led  them  to  the  ideas  we  find 
current  in  the  Hindu,  Egyptian,  and  Greek  Universities.1 

What  then  are  these  operations,  that  our  savants  do 
not   know  ? 

1  See  Fabre  d'Oliver,  La  Langue  Hébraïque  Restituée  et  Saint-Yves 
d'Al/eydre,  Mission  des  -ht ifs. 


THE   ESOTERISM   OF   NUMBERS.  27 

They  are  of  two  kinds  :  theosophic  reduction  and 
theosophic  addition. 

These  operations  are  theosophic  because  they  cause  the 
essential  laws  of  nature  to  penetrate  throughout  the  world  ; 
they  cannot  be  included  in  the  science  of  phenomena,  for 
they  tower  above  it,  soaring  into  the  heights  of  pure 
intellectuality. 

They  therefore  formed  the  basis  of  the  secret  and  oral 
instruction  confided  to  a  few  chosen  men,  under  the  name 
of  Esoterism. 

1.  Theosop)hic  Reduction. 

Theosophic  reduction  consists  in  reducing  all  the  numbers 
formed  of  two  or  several  figures  to  the  number  of  a  single 
figure,  and  this  is  done  by  adding  together  the  figures 
which  compose  the  number,  until  only  one  remains. 

example  : 

10  =  1+0  =  1 

11  =  1  +  1  =  2 

12  =  1  +  2  =  3 

126  =  1+2  +  6  =  9 
2488  =  2  +  4  +  8  +  8  =  22  =  2  +  2  =  4 

This  operation  corresponds  to  that  which  is  now  called 
the  proof  by  9. 

2.  Theosophic  Addition. 

Theosophic  addition  consists  in  ascertaining  the  theo- 
sophic value  of  a  number,  by  adding  together  arithmetically 
all  the  figures  from  the  unity  to  itself  inclusively. 

Thus  the  figure   4,   in   theosophic  addition,  equals   all 


28  THE   TAROT. 

the  figures  from  1  to  4  inclusively  added   together,  that 
is  to  say,  1  +  2  +  3  +  4  =  10. 
The  figure  7  equals — 

1+2  +  3  +  4  +  5  +  6  +  7  =  28  =  2  +  8  =  10. 


Theosophic  reduction  and  addition  are  the  two  oper- 
ations which  it  is  indispensable  to  know,  if  we  would 
understand  the  secrets  of  antiquity.1 

Let  us  now  apply  these  rules  to  all  the  numbers,  that 
we  may  discover  the  law  which  directs  their  progression. 

Theosophic  reduction  shows  us,  first  of  all,  that  all 
numbers,  whatever  they  may  be,  are  reducible  in  them- 
selves to  the  nine  first,  since  they  are  all  brought  down 
to  numbers  of  a  single  figure. 

But  this  consideration  is  not  sufficient,  and  theosophic 
addition  will  now  furnish  us  with  new  light. 

Through  it  we  find  that  1,  4,  7,  10  are  equal  to  1. 

for:  1  =  1 

4  =  1  +  2  +  3  +  4  =  10=1 
7  =  1+2  +  3  +  4  +  5  +  6  +  7  =  28  =  10  =  1 
10  =  1 

So  that  all  the  three  numbers  ultimately  return  to  the 
figure  1,  thus — 

1.       2.     3  4.       5.    6 

4  =10  =1  7=  28  =  10=1 

1  See  for  more  details  Traité  Élémentaire  de  Science  Occulte,  by 
Papus,  chap.  ii. 


THE   ESOTERISM  OF   NUMBERS.  29 

Or  one  could  write — 

1.  2.  3 

(1) 
4.  5.   6 

(1),  etc. 

The  results  of  this  consideration  are  :  (1)  That  all  the 
numbers  in  their  evolution,  reproduce  the  4  first; 

(2)  That  the  last  of  these  4  first,  the  figure  4,  represents 
the  unity  at  a  different  octave. 

The  sequence  of  the  numbers  may  therefore  be  written 
in  this  way — 


1. 

2. 

3 

4. 

5. 

6 

7. 

8. 

9 

10. 

11. 

12 

13. 

14. 

15 

16. 

17. 

18 

19 

We  may  notice  that  4,  7,  10,  13,  16,  19,  etc.,  are  only 
different  conceptions  of  the  unity,  and  this  may  be  proved 
by  the  application  of  theosophic  addition  and  reduction 
thus — 

4=    1  +  2  +  3  +  4  =  10-1 

7=    1  +  2  +  3  +  4+    5  +  6  +  7  =  28  =  10  =  1 
10=    1 

13=    4  =  10=    1 
16=    7  =  28=10=1 
19  =  10=    1,  etc.,  etc. 

We  see  that  in  every  three  numbers  the  series  reverts 
to  the  unity  abruptly,  whilst  it  returns  to  it  progressively 
in  the  two  intermediate  numbers. 


30  THE   TAKOT. 

Let  us  now  repeat  that  the  knowledge  of  the  laws  of 
numbers  and  the  study  of  them,  made  as  we  have  here 
indicated,  will  give  the  key  to  all  occult  science. 

We  must  now  sum  up  all  the  preceding  statements  in 
the  following  conclusion  :  that  all  numbers  may  be  reduced, 
in  a  final  analysis,  to  the  series  of  the  4  first,  thus  arranged — 

1.   2.  3 
4 


THE   SIGNIFICATION    OF  NUMBERS. 

But  our  knowledge  of  the  numerical  science  of  the 
ancients  does  not  end  here.  It  also  attributed  a  meaning 
to  each  number. 

Since  we  have  reduced  the  series  of  all  the  numbers  to 
the  4  first,  it  will  suffice  for  us  to  know  the  meaning 
attributed  to  these  4  first. 

The  Unity  represents  the  creative  principle  of  all 
numbers,  since  the  others  all  emanate  from  it;  it  is  the 
active  principle  pre-eminent. 

But  the  Unity  alone  cannot  produce  anything  except 

by  opposing  itself  to  itself  thus   —     From  this  proceeds 

duality,  the  principle  of  opposition  represented  by  two,  the 
passive  principle  pre-eminent. 

From  the  union  of  the  Unity  and  Duality  proceeds  the 
third  principle,  which  unites  the  two  opposites  in  one 
common  neutrality,  1+2  =  3.  Three  is  the  neuter  principle 
pre-eminent. 

But  these  three  principles  all  reduce  themselves  into 


THE   ESOTERISM   OF   NUMBERS. 


31 


the  fourth,  which  merely  represents  a  new  acceptation  of 
the  Unity  as  an  active  principle.1 

The  law  of  these  principles  is  therefore  as  follows — 


Unity 
or  return  to  unity. 

Opposition 
antagonism. 

Action  of  opposition 
upon  the  unity. 

Active 
1 

Passive 

2 

Neuter 
3 

Active 
4 

Etc 

Active 
1 

Passive 



Passive- Active 

2 

4 

« 

Net 
< 

iter 
3 

1  See  for  further  enlightenment  the  Traité  Élémentaire  de  Science 
Occulte,  p.  49  and  following. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

ANALOGY  BETWEEN  THE  SACRED  WORD  AND  NUMBERS. 

The  Kabbalistic  Word  and  the  Series  of  Numbers — Explanation  of 
the  Tetractys  of  Pythagoras — Figuration  of  the  General  Law. 

Numbers  and  the  Kabbalistic  Word. 

This  sequence  of  numbers  1,  2,  3,  and  4,  representing  the 
active,  the  passive,  the  neuter,  and  a  second  active  principle, 
corresponds  in  all  points  with  the  series  of  the  letters  of 
the  sacred  name,  so  that  the  latter  may  be  thus  written — 

Yod  —  He  —  Vau 
2nd  He  =  Yod,  etc., 

which  demonstrates  analogically  that — 

1  represents  Yod 

2  —         He 

3  —         Vau 

4  —         The  2nd  He 

We  can  prove  the  truth  of  these  analogies  by  the 
identity  of  the  action  of  the  number  4,  which  becomes  a 
unity  (4  =  10  =  1),  and  of  the  second  He,  which  represents 
the  Yod  of  the  following  sequence. 


THE   SACRED   WORD   AND    NUMBERS.- 


33 


In  comparing  the  two  identical    series  we  obtain  the 
following  figures — 


Kabballstic  sequence 
Yod 


Sequence  of  numbers 
1 


lie 


2nd  he 


vau 


Identity  of  the  two  sequences 


1 
Yod 


2  he  H 


H  2nd  he  4 


1 

vau 
3 


We  can  now  understand  why  Pythagoras,  initiated  in 
Egypt  into  the  mysteries  of  the  sacred  word  Yod-he-vau- 
he,  replaced  this  word  in  his  esoteric  teachings  by  the 
sequence  of  the  4  first  numbers  or  tetractys. 

This  sequence  of  the  numbers  is,  in  all  points,  identical 
with  the  sequence  of  the  letters  of  the  sacred  name,  and 
the  tetractys  of  Pythagoras,  1,  2,  3,  4,  equals  and  absolutely 
represents  the  word  Yod-he-vau-he. 

The  sequence  of  the  numbers,  or  the  sequence  of  the 
letters,  therefore,  resolves  itself  definitely  into  the  following 
data — 

D 


34  THE   TAROT. 

1   Term  positive  and  generator. 
The  Yod  or  the  1. 

1   Term  negative  or  générant. 

The  He  or  the  2. 

1  Term    neuter    or   generated    proceeding    from   the    two 
preceding. 

The  Vau  or  the  3. 

1  Term  of  transition  individualizing  itself  in  the  following- 
sequence. 

The  2nd  He  or  the  4. 

Provided  with  these  preliminary  data,  which  are  abso- 
lutely indispensable,  let  us  now  take  our  pack  of  cards,  or 
Tarot,  and  see  if  we  cannot  find  the  universal  law  in  it — 

yod 


he 


2nd  he 


vau 


symbolized  through  antiquity  by  the  Cross. 


CHAPTER  V. 

THE  KEY  TO  THE  MINOR  ARCANA. 

Formation  of  the  Tarot — Study  of  a  Colour — The  Four  Figures — The 
Ten  Numbers — Affinity  between  the  Figures  and  the  Numbers — 
Study  of  the  Four  Colours — General  Study  of  the  Minor  Arcana. 

The  Key  to  the  Minor  Arcana. 

The  Tarot  is  composed  of  78  cards,  divided  as  follows — 

56  cards  called  the  minor  arcana. 
22  cards  called  the  major  arcana. 

The  56  minor  arcana  are  formed  of  4  series  of  14  cards 
each. 

The  22  major  arcana  are  formed  of  21  numbered  cards, 
and  of  one  un-numbered. 

In  order  to  study  the  Tarot  with  success,  we  must  then 
arrange  the  following  packets — 

4  packets  of  14  cards  each. 

14  +  11  +  14  +  14  =  5Q 

1  packet  of  21  cards =  21 

1  packet  of  1  card =  1 

Total 78 


36  THE   TAROT. 

We  shall  presently  return  to  the  origin  of  this  marvellous 
conception  of  the  human  mind,  but  for  the  present  we 
must  confine  ourselves  to  the  dissection  of  the  machine, 
and  to  displaying  its  mysterious  arrangement. 

Starting  from  a  fixed  and  immovable  principle,  the 
constitution  of  the  sacred  tetragrammaton,  Yod-he-vau-he, 
the  Tarot  develops  the  most  divers  combinations,  without 
one  departure  from  its  basis.  We  shall  now  unveil  this 
wonderful  construction,  which  confirms  in  its  application 
the  universal  law  of  analogies. 

The  explanations  which  follow  may  appear  dry  to  some 
persons;  but  they  must  remember  that  we  are  now  giving 
them  an  almost  infallible  key  to  the  ancient  or  occult 
science  ;  and  they  will  understand  that  they  must  open 
the  door  of  the  sacred  arch  for  themselves. 

STUDY   OF   A   COLOUR. 

Let  us  now  take  one  of  the  packets  of  fourteen  cards  and 
analyze  its  construction. 

This  packet,  taken  as  a  whole,  corresponds  to  one  of  the 
colours  of  our  pack  of  cards.  The  4  packets  respectively 
represent  the  wands  or  sceptres,  corresponding  to  oui- 
clubs  ;  the  cups  or  goblets,  corresponding  to  our  hearts  ;  the 
swords,  corresponding  to  our  spades  ;  and  money  or  Pentacles, 
corresponding  to  our  diamonds. 

We  shall  now  study  one  of  these  packets,  for  instance 
that  of  Sceptres. 

The  packet  consists  of  4  figures  :  the  king,  queen, 
knight,  and  knave,  and  of  ten  cards  which  simply  bear 
numbers. 

The  ace,  two,  three,  four,  five,  six,  seven,  eight,  nine, 
and  ten. 


THE   KEY  TO  THE   MINOR  ARCANA. 


37 


THE   FOUR   FIGURES. 


We  must  first  consider  the  four  figures — 
The  king  represents  the  active,  the  man,  or  male. 
The  queen  represents  the  passive,  the  woman,  or  female. 
The  knight  represents  the  neuter,  the  adolescent. 
Lastly,    the    knave    represents   the    4th    term    of    this 
sequence,  which  may  be  figured  in  this  way — 


King 


Queen 


Knave 


Knight 


This  sequence  is  only  an  application  of  the  general  law 
Yod-hc-vaic-he,  which  we  already  know,  and  the  analogy  is 
easily  established — 


King 

or 

Yod 


Queen 

or 
1st  He 


Knave 

or 
2nd  He 


Knight 
or 

Va  u 

The  knave  therefore  corresponds  with  the  second  He,  i.  e. 
it  is  only  a  term  of  transition  ;  but  transition  between 
what  ? 

Between  the  four  figures  and  the  ten  numbers  following. 


38 


THE   TAROT. 


THE   TEN    NUMBERS. 

Let  us  now  study  these  numbers.  We  are  acquainted 
with  the  Law  of  numbers,  or  law  of  the  sequences,  which 
we  have  already  stated  in  these  terms — 

1  —  2.  3 
4  —  5.  6 

7  —  etc. 

The  ten  cards  cannot  escape  from  this  law,  and  we  can 
at  once  arrange  them  in  series. 

The  first  series  will  be  formed  of  the  ace,  or  1,  repre- 
senting the  active,  of  the  2  personating  the  passive,  of  the 
3  for  the  neuter,  and  lastly  of  the  4,  which  represents  the 
transition  from  one  series  to  another. 

1,  2,  3,  4  therefore  correspond  also  with  the  Yod-he-vau- 
hc,  and  are  thus  formulated — 

Ace 

or 
Yod 


Two  or  1st  He 


2nd  He  Four 


Vau 

or 
Three 

The  other  series  follow  the  same  rule  exactly,  the  second 
He  of  the  preceding  series  becoming  the  Yod  of  the  follow- 
ing series  :  thus  4,  the  fourth  term  of  the  first  series, 
becomes  the  first  term  of  the  second  series  ;  7,  the  fourth 
term  of  the  second,  becomes  the  first  term  of  the  third,  as 
follows — 


THE  KEY  TO  THE  MINOR  ARCANA. 


39 


THE   SERIES    OF   NUMBERS. 
4 


10 


We  see  that  the  same  law,  Y'od-he-vcm-he,  can  be  applied 
to  these  series.  Since  this  law  is  also  applicable  to  the 
four  figures,  we  can  make  a  comparison  based  on  the 
following  proposition — 

Two  terms  (the  numbers  and  the  figures)  equal  to  a 
same  third  (the  law  Yod-he-vcm-lie)  are  equal  between 
themselves. 


THE  SEQUENCE  IN  ONE  COLOUR. 


Queen 


King 


Knight 

4 


6 


Knave 


9 


10 


If  we  now  group  all  the  numbers  of  the  sequence  accord- 
ing to  the  letter  of  the  tetragrammaton,  to  which  they 
are  analogous,  we  shall  find — 


40  THE    TAROT. 

Eepresenting  Yod  1  —    4  —  7 

Representing  the  1st  He  2  —    5  —  8 

Eepresenting  the  Vau  3  —    6  —  9 
Eepresenting  the  2nd  He  10 

(1.  4.  7) 
Yod 


(2.  5.  8)     1st  He 


2nd  He     (10) 


Vau 

(3.  6.  9) 

The  figure  10  therefore  acts  for  the  numbers,  as  the 
knave  acts  for  the  figures,  that  is  to  say,  it  serves  as  a 
transition.     Between  what  ? 

Between  one  colour  and  another. 

AFFINITY   BETWEEN   THE   FIGUKES    AND    THE    NUMBERS. 

We  have  already  studied  both  the  figures  and  the 
numbers  separately,  let  us  now  see  what  connection  exists 
between  the  figures  and  the  numbers. 

If  we  group  the  similar  terms  according  to  the  identical 
Law  which  rules  them,  we  shall  find  them  as  follows — 


The  King   is  the        Yod 

of 

1.  4. 

7 

The  Queen    — ■          He 

of 

2.   5. 

8 

The  Knight  —          Vau 

of 

3.  6. 

9 

The  Knave  —  2nd  He 

of 

10 

The  sequence  of  the  figures  is  reproduced  three  times  in 
the  series  of  numbers,  that  is  to  say,  that  each  series  of 
numbers  represents  a  conception  of  the  figures  in  each  of 
the  three  Kabbalistic  worlds. 

The  series  1,  2,  3,  4  represents  the  emanation  of  the 
sequence  king,  queen,  knight,  knave  in  the  divine  world. 


X 


THE  KEY  TO  THE  MINOR  ARCANA.       41 

The  series  4,  5,  6,  7  represents  this  evolution  in  the 
human  world. 

The  series  7,  8,  9,  10  represents  this  evolution  in  the 
material  world. 

Each  colour  is  a  complete  whole,  formed  after  the 
manner  of  beings. 

Of  a  material  body  : 

(Knight  —  7.8.9) 

Of  a  vital  force  : 

(Queen  —  4.5.6) 

Of  an  intellect  : 

(King  —  1.2.3) 

Of  reproductive  organs  : 

(Knave  —  10) 

Each  of  these  parts  can  subdivide  itself  into  three  others, 
as  the  numbers  indicate.1 

Let  us,  however,  return  to  our  deduction,  and  by 
summing  up  the  results  obtained,  we  shall  find — 

Representations  of  the  Yocl  : 

The  King 
The  1  or  Ace 
The  4 
The  7 

Representations  of  the  He  : 

The  Queen 
The  2 
The  5 
The  8 

1  We  wished  to  make  this  application  of  the  Tarot  in  order  to 
show  Initiates  what  results  might  be  expected  from  the  laws 
explained  by  studying  it. 


42 


THE   TAROT. 


Representations  of  the  Van  : 

The  Knight 
The  3 
The  6 
The  9 

Representations  of  the  2nd  He  : 

The  Knave 
The  10 


FIGURATION   OF   ONE   COLOUR. 


THE  KEY  TO  THE  MINOK  ARCANA. 


43 


Head — Spirituality 


VO  N  c 


Divine  World 


Ch  est— Vitality 


OlU  EEa/ 


Human  World 


Body— Materiality 


Y\    1    Q   A/  7* 


Transition  from 

one  being  to 

another 


Material  World 


Transition  from 

one  world  to 

another 


*aTa^ 


44  THE   TAROT. 

STUDY    OF    THE    FOUR   COLOURS. 

Supplied  with  these  data,  let  us  continue  our  study 
and  apply  the  same  principle  to  the  other  cards. 

The  laws  which  we  have  denned  for  the  constitution 
of  one  colour,  apply  in  the  same  way  to  the  other  three 
colours. 

But  when  we  consider  the  four  colours  of  the  Tarot, 
new  deductions  will  be  called  forth.  We  must  remember 
that  these  four  colours  are  :  the  Sceptre,  the  Cup,  the 
Sword,  and  the  Money  or  Pentacles. 

The  Sceptre  represents  the  Male  or  the  Active. 

The  Cup  is  the  image  of  the  Passive  or  Feminine. 

The  Sword  represents  the  union  of  the  two  by  its  crucial  form. 

Lastly,  the  Pentacles  represent  the  second  He. 

The  authors  who  have  philosophically  studied  the 
Tarot  are  all  unanimous  in  asserting  the  analogy  that 
exists  between  the  tetrasframmaton  and  the  four  colours. 
Guillaume  Postel,1  and  above  all  Eliphas  Levi,2  have 
developed  these  studies  with  great  results,  and  they  show 
us  the  four  letters  of  the  tetragrammaton  applied  in  the 
symbolism  of  every  cultus. 

We  must  pause  one  moment  to  notice  the  analogy 
between  these  letters  and  the  symbols  of  the  Christian 
religion. 

The  Tod  or  Sceptre  of  the  Tarot  is  represented  by  the  episcopal 
crosier. 

The  1st  He  or  Cup  is  represented  by  the  Chalice. 

The  Van  or  Sword  by  the  Cross,  bearing  the  same  form. 

The  2nd  He  or  Pentacles  by  the  Host,  the  transition  from  the 
natural  to  the  Supernatural  world. 

1  Clavis  abscunditarum  rerum. 

2  Eliphas  Levi,  Dogme  et  Rituel  de  la  Haute  Magie. 


THE  KEY  TO  THE  MINOR  ARCANA.       45 

The  series  which  we  have  studied  in  one  colour  is 
defined  equally  strictly  in  the  four  colours  regarded  as  a 
whole,  thus — 

Sceptre 
or 

Yod 

« 

Cup  or  He      2nd  He  or  Money 

Van 

or 

Sword 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  GLANCE  OVER  THE  MINOR  ARCANA. 

If  we  look  back  a  little,  we  can  easily  judge  the  road 
we  have  traversed. 

The  four  colours  considered  in  globo  have  shown  us  the 
application  of  the  law  Yod-he-vau-he. 

But  the  same  law  is  reproduced  in  each  of  the  colours 
taken  separately. 

The  four  figures  represent  Yod-he-vau-he  ; 

The  four  series  of  numbers  also. 

Let  us  then  arrange  all  the  cards  according  to  their 
affinities,  and  we  shall  obtain  the  following  results — 

The  4  Kings  v 

) 


The  4  Aces 


The  4  Fours 
The  4  Sevens 


=  Yod 


The  4  Queens 

I 

The  4  Twos 

The  4  Fives 

j 

The  4  Eights 

He 


46  THE   TAROT. 


The  4  Cavaliers 
The  4  Threes 
The  4  Sixes 
The  4  Nines 


Van 


The  4  Knaves  X  =  He 

The  4  Tens  J 

If  we  wished  to  represent  this  arrangement  by  a 
synthetic  diagram,  we  should  place  the  sacred  name  in 
the  centre  of  a  circle  divided  into  four  parts,  which  re- 
spectively correspond  with  each  of  the  letters  Yod-he-xan- 
he.  In  each  of  the  quarters,  the  cards  that  are  analogous 
to  the  letters  of  the  tetragrammaton  will  radiate  from  the 
centre.     See  the  diagram  on  page  opposite. 

The  figures  have  the  same  connection  with  the  colours 
as  the  numbers  have  with  the  figures. 

The  sequence  of  the  figures  is  reproduced  in  the  three 
worlds  by  the  numbers  ;  the  same  thing  takes  place  in 
the  sequence  of  colours  :  Sceptre,  Cup,  Sword,  Pentacles 
are  reproduced  in  the  figures. 

The  Sceptre  is  the  Yod  of  the  4  Kings. 
The  Cup  is  the  He  of  the  4  Queens. 
The  Sword  is  the  Van  of  the  4  Knights. 
The  Pentacles  is  the  He  of  the  4  Knaves. 

And  just  as  each  colour  has  a  complete  whole,  formed 
of  a  body,  of  a  soul,  and  of  a  mind  or  vital  force,  so  the  four 
colours  form  a  complete  whole  thus  composed  : — 

The  material  body  of  the  minor  arcana  : 

The  4  Knights 

The  4  Sevens 
The  4  Eights 
The  4  Nines 


% 


THE  KEY  TO  THE  MINOR  ARCANA. 


1 


1/ 


UJ 


IX 


& 


fkCt 


VO 


nc 


^ 


& 


<*? 


n 


<v 


.^QRDS 


1 


/> 


^ 


4C£ 


*C 


^ 


fa 


>fc 


/0 


•7 


<*>, 


VII 


%• 


s>> 


/> 


? 


■n 


i 


w\vii 


<p 


uJ 


r 


£ 


1 


n 


CO 


IV 


'N 


Vl\ 


w 


A 


nP 


% 


7 

CuPs 


f/v 


'CHT 


& 


1 

SWO&D3 


A 


\& 


^ 


$> 


& 


/i/ 


i/u 


KNl 


G^ 


^ 


^ 


6 


general  figure  of  the  minor  arcana. — Disposition  of  Series. 


The  vital  body  of  the  minor  arcana  : 


The  4  Queens 
The  4  Fours 
The  4  Fives 
The  4  Sixes 


SCEPTRES 


Head,  Spirituality 


Chest,  Vitality 


Body,  Materiality 


Divine  World 


Human  World 


Material    World 


Transition  from 
one  being  to 
the  other. 
Generation 


Transition  from 

one  world  to 

the  other 


Knave  10 
PENTACLE 


THE   KEY  TO  THE  MINOR   ARCANA.  49 

The  intellectual  body  : 

The  4  Kings 
The  4  Aces 
The  4  Twos 
The  4  Threes 

Reproductive  organs  : 

The  4  Knaves 
The  4  Tens 

We  can  only  point  out  the  very  instructive  affinities 
shown  in  these  figures  ;  they  can  be  carried  to  a  great 
length. 

We  give  these  indications  in  order  to  demonstrate  the 
management  of  analogy,  the  method  of  the  occult  science, 
to  which  we  have  so  frequently  alluded  in  our  preceding 
works. 

We  need  only  compare  this  last  diagram,  which  repre- 
sents the  four  colours,  with  the  first,  which  depicted  one 
only,  to  see  at  once  that  the  law  upon  which  these  two 
diagrams  are  constructed  is  the  same,  only  that  the 
applications  of  it  are  varied. 

It  is  the  same  law  by  which  the  cells  that  form  the 
human  being  group  themselves  to  constitute  organs,  the 
organs  group  themselves  to  form  members,  and  the  grouping 
of  the  latter  produces  the  individual.1 

We  have  drawn  the  following  conclusion  from  all  that 
we  have  already  stated — ■ 

The  Pentaeles,  responding  to  the  second  He,  indicates 
a  transition. 

Between  what  ? 

Between  the  minor  and  major  arcana. 

1  See  the  Traité  Élémentaire  de  Science  Occulte,  chap.  iii. 


50 


THE   TAROT. 


,«* 


"X 


0 


\^ 


r\ 


EPTR 

9 

6 
3 

7 

£$ 

J 

5 


£/v 


/ 


% 


'V, 


J 


/>- 


or 


h 


(< 


? 


7 


p> 


^ 


o 


v-> 


<V 


/ 


c 


'J/. 


L> 

i 

J.H 

\^ 


«* 


o 


vw\w 


jj 


-v 


r 


/, 


2, 


S 


GENERAL   KEY   TO   MTNOR   ARCAXA. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

THE  KEY  TO  THE  MAJOR  ARCANA. 

The  Major  Arcana — 1st  Ternary — 2nd  Ternary — 1st  Septenary — 
2nd  Septenary — The  Three  Septenaries  and  the  Ternary  of 
Transition. 

The  Major  Arcana. 

The  fundamental  difference  which  exists  between  the 
minor  and  major  arcana,  is  that  in  the  latter  the  figures 
and  numbers  are  united,  whilst  in  the  former  they  are 
distinct. 

There  are  22  major  arcana,  but  one  of  them  bears  a  0, 
so  that,  in  reality,  there  are  only  21  great  or  major  arcana. 

Most  of  the  authors  who  have  studied  the  Tarot  have 
devoted  all  their  attention  to  these  22  cards,  without 
noticing  the  others,  which,  however,  contain  the  real  key 
to  the  system. 

But  we  will  leave  these  digressions  and  commence  the 
application  of  the  law  Yod-hc-vau-he  to  this  portion  of  the 
Tarot. 

A  little  reflection  will  suggest  to  us  that  there  should 
be  some  sequences  in  the  major  arcana  as  well  as  in  the 
minor  arcana.  But  how  are  we  to  define  the  limits  of 
these  series  ? 


52  THE  TAROT. 

Each  card  of  the  minor  arcana  bears  a  symbol  which 
easily  connects  it  with  the  whole  scheme  (Sceptre,  Cup, 
Sword,  or  Pentacles);  it  is  different  in  this  case.  Each 
card  bears  a  different  symbol.  Therefore  it  is  not  symbolism 
that  can  guide  us  here,  at  all  events  for  the  moment. 

Besides  the  symbol,  each  card  expresses  au  idea.  This 
idea  is  already  a  better  guide,  for  it  is  easier  to  classify 
than  the  symbol  ;  but  this  guide  does  not  yet  offer  all  the 
security  that  we  could  desire,  for  it  may  be  read  differently 
by  various  persons.  Again,  the  idea  proceeds  from  the 
action  of  the  symbol  upon  the  other  term  expressed  by 
the  card,  the  member. 

The  number  is  certainly  the  most  reliable  element,  the 
easiest  to  follow  in  its  evolutions  ;  it  is,  therefore,  the 
number  that  will  guide  us  ;  and  through  it  we  shall 
discover  the  two  other  terms. 

Let  us  now  recall  our  explanation  of  the  numbers,  and 
Ave  shall  easily  define  the  series  of  the  major  arcana. 

However,  from  the  commencement  we  must  'make  one 
great  reservation.  The  series  which  we  are  about  to 
enumerate  are  the  most  usual,  but  they  are  not  the  only 
ones. 

This  said,  we  will  now  study  the  four  first  major  arcana. 

The  numbers  1,2,  3,  4  at  once  indicate  the  classification 
to  be  adopted  and  the  nature  of  the  terms. 

1  corresponds  to  Yod,  and  is  active. 

2  —  to  He      — -     passive. 

3  —  to  Vau  '  —     neuter. 

4  —  to  the  2nd  He,  and  indicates  transition. 

This  4th  arcanum  corresponds  to  the  Knave  and  to  the 
10  of  the  minor  arcana,  and  becomes  Yod  in  the  next  or 
following  series. 


THE  KEY  TO  THE  MAJOR  ARCANA. 


53 


If  we  wish  to  make  a  figure  of  the  first  ternary  1,  2,  3, 
we  should  do  it  in  this  way — 

o 

i 


(n)  2 


(3)1 


The  active  term  1  is  at  the  head  of  the  triangle,  the 
two  other  terms  are  at  the  other  angles. 

This  ternary  can  also  be  represented  in  its  affinities  with 
Yod-he-vau  -he — 

1 
yod 


2  he 


2nd  he  4 


vau 
3 


Second  ternary. — We  have  stated  that  the  4  becomes 
the  Yod  or  active  term  in  the  following  sequence. 


This  is  realized  in  the  figure  below — 

4 

yod 


5    he 


2nd  he    7 


ran 
6 


54 


THE   TAROT. 


The  4  representing  the  Yod,  therefore,  acts  with  regard 
to  5  and  6,  as  the  1  acted  with  regard  to  2  and  3,  and  we 
obtain  another  ternary. 


(<) 


-^     6 


The  7  acts  here  as  the  4  acted  previously,  and  the 
same  rule  applies  to  all  the  series  in  the  arcana. 

First  septenary. — The  application  of  one  law  to  very 
different  terms  has  led  us  so  far;  we  must  not  abandon 
this  system,  but  persevere  and  say — 

If  in  one  ternary  exist  an  active  term  =  yod,  a  passive 
term  =  he,  and  a  neuter  term  =  vau,  resulting  from  the 
two  first,  why  should  not  the  same  result  be  found  in 
several  ternaries  taken  together  ? 

The  first  ternary  is  active  and  corresponds  to  yod  ;  the 
second  ternary  is  passive  and  corresponds  to  lie;  the  re- 
action of  one  ternary  upon  another  gives  birth  to  a  third 
ternary  or  vau. 

Let  us  make  a  figure  representing  this — 

1 


THE  KEY  TO  THE  MAJOR  ARCANA. 


55 


The  7  therefore  forms  the  element  of  transition  between 
one  septenary  and  another. 

If  we  define  the  analogy  between  this  first  septenary 
and  the   Yod-he-vau-hc,  we  shall  find — 

(1-4) 


yod 


(2—5)  H  he 


-      2nd  he  n  (7) 


vau 


(3-6) 

A  deduction  may  be  made  in  passing,  from  which  a 
great  deal  of  information  may  be  derived,  if  it  be  carefully 
studied:  the  4  being  only  the  1,  considered  negatively,  the 
5  is  only  the  2  considered  negatively,  whilst  the  6  is  the 
negative  of  3.  It  is  always  the  same  member  under  different 
aspects. 

We  have  therefore  defined  a  first  septenary,  formed  of 
two  opposing  ternaries. 


56 


THE  TAROT. 


We  have  seen  that  this  septenary  also  reproduces  Yod- 

he-vau-he. 

Second  septenary. — The  law  that  applies  to  the  first 
ternaries  is  also  true  for  the  others,  and  following  the 
same  method  we  obtain  a  second  septenary,  thus  formed — 


Positive  Ternary. 

7 


8 


9 


Negative  Ternary. 
10 


11 


12 


The  two  ternaries,  positive  and  negative,  will  balance 
each  other  to  give  birth  to  a  second  septenary  and  to  its 
term  of  transition  13.     Thus — 


THE  KEY  TO  THE  MAJOR  ARCANA. 


57 


General  figure — 


7_  10 


(f^\)      hé    -j—     he    (jP) 


vau 


9_12 


But  if  the  two  ternaries  respectively  act  as  positive  and 
negative,  why  should  not  the  two  septenaries  do  the  same  ? 

The  first  septenary,  taken  as  a  whole,  will  therefore 
be  positive,  relatively  to  the  second  septenary,  which  will 
be  negative. 

The  first  septenary  corresponds  to  yod,  the  second  to  lie. 


58  THE   TAROT. 

Third  septenary.  The  third  septenary  is  thus  formed- 


(14-17)  he 


(13-16) 

yod 


van 
(15-18) 


he  (19) 


x 

19 

/  \ 

7 

1 

/iA 

Tl 

,/l5 

VisV 


If  the  first  septenary  is  positive  and  the  second  negative, 
the  third  will  be  neuter,  and  will  correspond  with  vau. 
We  should  have  therefore,  definitely — 

1st,    A   POSITIVE    SEPTENARY       =     Yod. 
2nd,    A    NEGATIVE    SEPTENARY  =    He. 
3rd,  A    NEUTER    SEPTENARY  =    Vail. 

Yet  each  septenary  contains  one  term  which  belongs  to 
the  preceding  septenary,  and  one  which  belongs  to  the 
following  septenary. 

Thus  the  7  is  the  7th  term  of  the  first  septenary  and 
the  1st  term  of  the  second.  13  is  the  last  term  of  the 
second  septenary  and  the  1st  of  the  third,  etc. 

The  result  is  that  three  terms  remain  to  be  classed. 
These  are — 


19 


20  —  21 


These  three  terms  form  the  last  ternary,  the  ternary  of 
transition  between  the  major  arcana  and  the  minor  arcana,, 
a  ternary  which  corresponds  to  the  second  he,  and  which 
may  be  thus  represented — 


THE  KEY  TO  THE  MAJOR  ARCANA. 

19 


59 


20 


21 


(20)  he 


(19) 
yod 


2nd  lie  (0) 


vau 

(21) 

The  last  numbered  card,  which  ought  correctly  to  bear 
the  number  22  for  its  Hebrew  correspondent),  closes  the 
Tarot  by  a  marvellous  figure,  which  represents  its  consti- 
tution to  those  who  can  understand  it.  We  will  return  to 
it  presently.  Therefore,  in  the  major  arcana,  the  great 
law  is  thus  definitely  represented.     (See  next  page.) 

The  first  septenary  corresponds  to  the  Divine  World,  to 
God. 

The  second  to  Man. 

The  third  to  Nature. 

Finally,  the  last  ternary  indicates  the  passage  from  the 
creative  and  providential  world  to  the  created  and  fatal 
world. 

This  ternary  establishes  the  connection  between  the 
major  and  minor  arcana. 


60 


THE  TAROT. 


7 


t  -T 


q  2  f& 


19 


1 

vau 


20 


CHAPTER  VIL 

CONNECTION   BETWEEN   THE   MAJOR   AND   MINOR   ARCANA. 
GENERAL   AFFINITIES. 

KEY   OF   THE   TAROT. 

Domination  of  the  1st  Septenary— Affinities  of  the  2nd  Septenary  in 
the  Tarot,  Card  by  Card — Ditto  of  the  3rd  Septenary — General 
Affinities — Affinities  of  Yod,  He,  Van,  and  of  the  2nd  He. 
General  figure  giving  the  Key  to  the  Tarot. 

Connection  between  the  Major  and  Minor  Arcana. 

The  Pentacles  on  one  side,  the  Ternary  of  transition  on 
the  other,  establish  the  connection  between  the  major  and 
minor  arcana. 

This  connection  is  found  in  the  general  affinities  of  the 
four  letters  of  the  tetragrammaton. 

The  1st  septenary,  which  corresponds  to  yocl,  governs  all 
the  correspondents  of  yod  in  the  minor  series,  that  is  to 
say — 

The  4  Kings. 

The  4  Aces. 

The  4   Fours. 

The  4  Sevens. 


62 


THE   TAROT. 


Each  element  of  the  septenary  governs  different  terms, 
thus — 

1st  Septenary. 

The  arcana  1  and  4  govern  King-1A.7  of  Sceptres. 

— ■  2  and  5      —  —  of  Cups. 

—  3  and  6      —  —  of  Swords. 

The  arcanum  7  —  —  of  Pentacles. 

Moreover— 

The  1st  arcanum  especially  governs  the  positive  terms 
of  the  series,  i.  c. — 

Arcanum  |  The  King  of  Yod  or  of  Sceptres  (  +  ).1 
1  (  +  )     I  The  King  of  Vau  or  of  Swords  ( — ). 

The  4th  arcanum  especially  governs  the  negative  terms 
of  the  series — 


Arcanum 


The  King  of  He     ...   Cups(  +  ). 

The  King  of  the  2nd  He  +  Pentacles  ( — ). 


By  applying  the  same  law  to  the  other  arcana  we  find — 

Arcanum 
(  +  )2 

Arcanum 
(-)B 


Ace  of  Yod  (  +  )  Sceptres. 
Ace  of  Vau  ( — )  Swords. 

Ace  of  He  (  +  )  Cups. 
Ace  of  He  ( — )  Pentacles. 


Arcanum  3 

(+) 

Arcanum  6 

(-) 

Arcanum  7 

(00  ) 


4  of  Sceptres  (  +  ). 
4  of  Swords  ( — ). 

4  of  Cups  (  +  ). 

4  of  Pentacles  ( — ). 

All  the  transitional  terms 


1  The  signs  -\-,  — ,  <x>  indicate  :  the  sign  +  the  positive  terms,  the 
sign  —  the  negative  terms,  the  sign  oo  the  neuter  terms. 


THE  MAJOR  AND  MINOR  ARCANA. 


63 


Second  septenary. — The  second  septenary,  correspond- 
ing to  He,  governs  all  the  correspondents  of  the  first  He,  in 
the  minor  series,  that  is  to  say — 

The  4  Queens. 
The  4  Twos. 
The  4  Fives. 
The  4  Eights. 

Each  element  of  the  second  septenary  has  the  following- 
dominations — 


Queen  of  Sceptres, 
Arcanum  7!  (  +  ) 

(  +  )       I  Queen  of  Swords, 

(-) 


Arcanum 
10 

(~) 


Queen  of  Cups, 

(+) 

Queen  of  Pentacles, 

(-) 


Arcanum  8 

rTwo  of  Sceptres, 

(+) 

Arcanum 

h 

(-) 

rTwo  of  Cups, 

(+) 

(+) 

Two  of  Swords, 

Two  of  Pentacles, 

1       (-) 

(-) 

Arcanum  9 

'Five  of  Sceptres, 

(■+) 

Arcanum 
1  '2 

'Five  of  Cups, 

(+) 

(+) 

Five  of  Swords, 

1       (-) 

J.  —i 

(-) 

Five  of  Pentacles, 

Arcana  13 

'  All  the  8, 

(»)    ' 

,      (oo) 

Third  septenary. — The   third    septenary  corresponds 
to  Van,  and  rules  over — 

The  4  Knights. 
The  4  Threes. 
The  4  Sixes. 
The  4  Nines. 


64  THE  TAROT. 

Each  element  of  this  septenary  thus  rules  over — 


Knight  of  Sceptres, 

(+) 

Knight  of  Swords, 

(-) 

'Three  of  Sceptres, 

(+) 

Three  of  Swords, 

(-) 

.  f  Six  of  Sceptres, 

Arcanum  .     * 

15       \  (  +  ) 

Six  of  Swords, 

(-) 


Arcanum 
14 

(  +  ) 


(  +  ) 


Arcanum 
16 

(-) 
Arcanum 

( 

Arcanum 
18 

(-) 


'Knight  of  Cups, 

(+) 

Knight  of  Pentacles, 

(-) 

( Three  of  Cups, 
anum  ,     s 

17  (  +  ) 

Three  of  Pentacles, 

_)    l        (-) 

Six  of  Cups, 

(+) 

Six  of  Pentacles, 

(-) 


Arcanum  19  f  All  the  nines, 
(oo)         J  (oo) 

Ternary  of  transition. — The   ternary   of  transition 
rules  over — 

The  4  Knaves. 
The  4  Tens. 

Each  of  its  elements  thus  rules  over — 


Arcanum 

19 

(oo) 


(M 


Knave  of  Sceptres, 

(+) 

Knave  of  Swords, 

(-) 


Arcanum 

20 

(») 

(-) 


nr 


Knave  of  Cups, 

(+) 

Knave  of  Pentacles, 

(-) 


Arcanum  21  J  All  the  10, 
(+)        I  (») 

Value  of  the  signs  + ,  — ,  and  oo . 

The  signs  which  follow  each  card  in  the  preceding  lists 
define  the  exact  value  of  the  card.  One  example  will 
suffice  to  make  this  clearly  understood. 


THE   MAJOR  AND   MINOR  ARCANA.  65 

Each  term  can  be  taken  in  two  principal  acceptations  : 
in  the  positive  (  +  )  or  in  the  negative  ( — ).  The  same  rule 
applies  to  the  sub-divisions  of  these  terms. 

For  instance,  the  correspondents  of  the  first  septenary 
are  1  and  4. 

1  is  the  positive  (  +  ). 
4  is  the  negative  ( — ). 

1  governs  two  minor  arcana  :  the  King  of  Sceptres  and 
the  King  of  Swords. 

The  King  of  Sceptres  is  positive. 
The  King  of  Swords  is  negative. 

The  definite  value  of  these  terms  would  therefore  be — 
1st  King  of  Sceptres. 

Positive  (  +  )  of  the  positive  (  +  )  ; 
or 
King  of  Sceptres 
+       + 

2nd  King  of  Swords. 

Negative  ( — )  of  the  Positive  (  +  )  ; 
or  more  simply 
King  of  Swords 

+      — 

The  same  rule  applies  to  the  other  terms  in  combining 
the  sign  which  follows  the  major  arcanum  with  that  which 
follows  the  term  under  consideration. 

The  value  of  each  of  the  78  cards  of  the  Tarot  is  thus 
defined. 


66 


THE   TAROT. 


Major 
Arcana 


Minor 

Arcana 


Major 
Arcana 


Minor 
Arcana 


Major 
Arcana 


GENERAL   AFFINITIES. 

AFFINITIES   TO    Yod. 

Positive. 
Arcanum     1 

—  7 


/ 


V 


—         13 

King  of  Sceptres 

Ace 

4 

7 

King  of  Swords 

Ace 

4 

7 


Negative. 
Arcanum     4 
10 
—         16 

King  of  Cups 
Ace         — 
4  — 

7  — 

King  of  Pentacles 

Ace         — 
4 

7  — 


AFFINITIES   TO    THE    1ST   He. 


V 


Positive. 
Arcanum     2 

—  8 

—  14 

Queen  of  Sceptres 
Two  — 

Five  — 

Eight         — 
Queen  of  Swords 
Two  — 

Five  — 

Eisht         — 


Negative. 
Arcanum     5 

—  11 

—  17 
Queen  of  Cups 
Two  — 
Five  — 
Eight  ■ — ■ 
Queen  of  Pentacles 
Two          — 

Five  — 

Eisrht 


AFFINITIES   TO     Vail. 
Positive.  Negative. 


Arcanum     3 

—  9 

—  15 


Arcanum     6 

—  12 

—  18 


THE  MAJOR  AND  MINOR  ARCANA. 


67 


/  Knight  of  Sceptres                  Knight  of  Cups 

Three           —                          Three         — 

Six               —                          Six             — 

Minor 

< 

Nine            —                          Nine           — - 

Arcana 

Knight  of  Swords                   Knight  of  Pentacles. 

Three           —                          Three         — 

Six               —                          Six             — 

\Nine            —                          Nine           — 

AFFINITIES    TO    THE    2ND    He. 

Positive.                                      Negative. 

Arcanum  19                                 Arcanum  20 

Knave  of  Sceptres                         Knave  of  Cups 

—      of  Swords                               —     of  Pentacles 

Equilibrium. 

Arcana        21 — 22 

Ten  of  Sceptres 

—  of  Swords 

—  of  Cups 

—   of  Pentacles 

GENERAL    FIGURE    OF   THE   CONSTRUCTION    OF   THE   TAROT, 
SHOWING   ALL   THE   AFFINITIES. 

The  absolute  law. 

Yod  He   Vau  He 

is  in  the  centre  of  the  figure. 

Each  of  the  letters  of  the  tetragrammaton  governs  one 
quarter  of  the  circle  which  contains  its  affinities. 

The  different  colours  indicate  the  especial  dominion  of 
each  arcanum. 


68 


THE  TAROT. 


1\ 


>nN 


af 


>$y 


J> 


V 


<v 


V 


T/<« 


V 


1 


Ac 


DS 

cu 

^ 

4 

e. 

/\C£ 

4& 

K/Nç 

rr 


^ 


7 


« 


?< 


*& 


V. 


C? 


s 


fp 


r\ 


CO 
Q. 


CJ 

Lu 

Or 

CO 

1  ° 

\  81 

\  5 

\  2 

i   ^ 

1 


a: 
c 


A    \  * 


A 


'C. 


<f 


grand  general  FIGURE  of  the  tarot. — Arrangement  of  Series. 


PART   II. 

SYMBOLISM   IN   THE    TAROT. 

APPLICATION   OF   THE   GENERAL   KEY   TO   SYMBOLISM. 


CHAPTER   VIII. 

INTRODUCTION   TO   THE   STUDY   OF   SYMBOLISM. 

The  Symbols — The  Primitive  Terms — Key  of  Symbolism — Definition 
of  the  Sense  of  one  of  the  Symbols — The  General  Law  of 
Symbolism. 

Introduction  to  the  Study  of  Symbolism  in  the 

Tarot. 

Our  study  of  the  Tarot  and  its  numerical  arrangement 
has  given  us  the  general  key,  which  should  be  applied  to 
all  the  further  developments  of  which  our  subject  may  be 
susceptible. 

The  symbols  should  therefore  exactly  follow  the  evolu- 
tion of  the  numbers,  and  this  we  shall  find  them  do. 
However,  as  we  shall  now  study  each  of  the  cards  of  the 
Tarot  in  turn,  and  as  the  reader's  attention  ma}^  be  a  little 
diverted  by  all  these  details,  we  have  determined  to  com- 
mence by  a  short  introduction  to  the  study  of  the  symbol- 
ism of  the  Tarot,  an  introduction  in  which  we  shall  say  a 
few  words  upon  the  grouping  of  the  symbols. 

This  point  explained,  we  can  pass  on  to  further  details, 
which  we  shall  terminate  by  a  synthetic  recapitulation. 
We  thus  hope  to  obtain  the  greatest  possible  light  upon 
these  difficult  subjects. 

The  analvsis  of  the  word   Yod-he-vau-he  has  given  us 


72  THE   TAROT. 

the  general  law  upon  which  the  whole  Tarot  is  constructed. 
This  law  is  thus  represented — ■ 

1 

yod 


he 


2nd  he     4 


vau 


We  must  therefore  first  define  the  four  primitive  terms 
in  our  symbols,  which  form  the  law  exactly  applicable  to 
the  whole  symbolism. 

And,  in  fact,  we  find  these  four  terms  in  our  four  first 
cards  ;  the  general  sense  of  these  terms  being — 

1  —  Creator  or  Divine. 

2  —  Preserver  or  Astral. 

3  —  Transformer  or  Physical  and  Diffuser. 

4  —  Generator  or  Transitional  becoming  Creator. 

This  law  corresponds  in  all  points  with  our  sacred  word, 

thus — 

Creator 

or 

Divine 

1 

yod 


Preserver 

or 

Astral 


2  he 


Transition 
2nd  he  4  or 

Generation 


vau 

3 

Transformer 

or 

Physical 


INTRODUCTION  TO  THE  STUDY  OF  SYMBOLISM.      73 

We  shall  see  that  this  law  applies  exactly  to  each  of  the 
cards  which  possess  three  meanings. 

A  superlative  or  Divine  meaning. 
A  comparative  or  Magic- Astral  meaning. 
•      A  positive  or  Physical  meaning,  responding  to  a  transition. 


GENERAI,   STUDY    OF   THE   FOUR   FIRST    CARDS. 

Key  to  the  Symbolism  of  the   Tarot. 

The  four  first  cards  of  the  major  arcana  form,  symbolic- 
ally as  well  as  numerically,  a  complete  sequence,  which 
corresponds  with  the  sacred  word  Yod-he-vau-he. 

For  the  first  card  expresses  the  active  absolute,  and 
corresponds  with  Yod. 

The  second  card  denotes  the  reflex  of  the  first,  the 
passive  absolute  ;  it  corresponds  with  the  first  He. 

The  third  indicates  the  median  term,  the  convertible 
transforming  term,  corresponding  to  Vau. 

Lastly,  the  fourth  card  is  a  term  of  transition  between 
the  preceding  series  and  the  one  that  follows  it. 

The  symbolic  series  of  the  Tarot  is  therefore  completely 
represented  by  the  four  first  cards,  exactly  as  the  numerical 
sequence  is  represented  by  the  four  first  numbers.  This 
fact  produces  a  very  important  consideration,  namely, 
that  all  the  symbols  of  the  Tarot  are  but  transformations 
of  the  three  first,  and  that  the  latter  will  supply  us  with 
the  general  law  of  symbolism,  a  law  which  will  enable  us 
to  determine  mathematically  the  sense  of  each  card  that 
follows. 

But  we  can  go  still  further. 


74 


THE   TAROT. 


Since  the  second  card  is  the  reflex  of  the  first,  and  is 
formed  by  the  first  considered  negatively,  and  since  the 
third  card  results  from  the  two  others,  it  suffices  to  he 
perfectly  acquainted  with  the  first  card  of  the  Tarot  to 
determine  mathematically  the  sense  of  all  the  others. 

Some  details  upon  this  subject  are  necessary. 

The  general  law  of  the  four  first  cards  is  as  follows — 

1  —  Positive.     Creator. 

2  —  Negative.     Keflex  of  the  first.     Preserver. 

3  —  Neater,  enveloping  the  two  others.     Transformer. 

4  —  Passage  from  one  series  to  another. 

We  can  then  represent  the  series  in  this  way — 

Positive 


Negative 


k    Neuter 


And  what  is  true  for  each  of  the  terms  of  a  ternary  is 
also  true  for  the  ternary  taken  as  a  whole,  and  this  leads 
us  to  new  considerations. 

For  the  first  ternary  would  be  positive,  corresponding  to 
Yod,  the  active,  the  creator. 

The  second  ternary  would  be  negative,  and  would  corre- 
spond to  the  first  He,  i.  e.  that  all  the  terms  of  this  ternary 
would  be  reflections  of  the  terms  of  the  first,  just  as  the 
second  card  was  the  reflex  of  the  first. 


INTRODUCTION  TO  THE  STUDY  OF   SYMBOLISM.      75 
This  gives  us — 

(5)  ~y    (6) 

Keflex  of  2  (7)  /     Reflex  of  3 


(4) 

Reflex  of  1 

We  can  thus  determine  the  meaning  of  the  arcana  4, 
5,  6,  7  in  the  three  worlds,  since  we  know  the  meaning  of 
the  arcana  1,  2,  3,  4. 

We  need  only  refer  to  the  study  of  the  Tarot  by  num- 
bers, to  find  the  symbols,  which  correspond  respectively  to 
Yod,  to  He,  to  Van,  and  to  the  second  He. 

But  if  the  second  ternary  is  the  reflex  of  the  first,  the 
same  rule  applies  to  the  septenaries. 

All  the  cards  of  the  second  septenary  will  therefore  be 
the  symbolical  reflection  of  those  of  the  first. 

All  the  cards  of  the  third  septenary  are  representatives 
of  the  third  term,  or  of  transformation. 

We  have  then — 

The  1st  septenary, 

Which  represents  the  active  Creation.     The  Divine  Osiris- 
Brahma,  or  the  Father. 

The  2nd  septenary, 

Which  represents  Preservation.     The  Astral,  Isis,  Vishnu, 
the  Son. 

The  3rd  septenary, 

Which   represents    Transformation,  Physics,   Horns,    Siva, 
the  Holy  Spirit. 


76 


THE   TAROT. 


The  three  first  arcana  will  therefore  give  the  sense  of 
all  the  others  according  to  the  following  figure  : 


FIGUEE 

SHOWING 

THE   SENSE   OP 

EACH    OF   THE 

22    MAJOR   ARCANA. 

yod 

positive  or 

1. 

4. 

7. 

10. 

13. 

1G. 

19. 

creative  series 

1st  he 

negative  or 
preservative 

2. 

5. 

8. 

11. 

14. 

17. 

20. 

series 

vau 

neuter  or 
transforming  series 

3. 

6. 

9. 

12. 

15. 

18. 

21. 

equilibrium 

2nd  he 

4  = 

1 
=  (1) 

1 

transitional 

series 

+ 

positive 

negative 

+ 

+ 

oo 

vau 

yod 

he 

neuter  or 

2nd  he 

positive  or 

negative  or 

transforming 

transitional 

creative  series 

preservative 

series 

series 

series 

equilibrium 

This  figure  is  very  important,  for  it  enables  us  to  see  at 
once  the  symbolical  value  of  any  card  in  the  Tarot,  by 
working  in  the  following  way — 


INTRODUCTION  TO  THE  STUDY  OF  SYMBOLISM.      77 

TO    DISCOVER    À   PRIORI   THE   SYMBOLICAL   VALUE   OF   ANY 
CARD    IN    THE   TAROT. 

We  must  see — 

(1st)  Which  Hebrew  letter  is  written  to  the  left  in  the 
horizontal  column,  which  contains  the  card  under  con- 
sideration. 

(2nd)  Which  Hebrew  letter  is  written  at  the  foot  of  the 
vertical  column,  containing  the  card. 

(3rd)  Which  sign  (+  or  — )  governs  the  secondary 
vertical  column,  containing  the  card  in  question. 

example  : 

I  wish  to  determine  the  sense  of  the  5th  arcanum. 

I  look  to  the  left  and  find  the  Hebrew  letter  he. 

This  shows  that  the  5th  arcanum  is  the  he  of  what  1 

In  order  to  know,  I  look  at  the  vertical  column  and  find 
yod. 

The  5th  arcanum  is  the  he  of  yod,  but  that  is  not  enough, 
so  I  look  at  the  secondary  column  which  contains  the  sign 
( — )  negative. 

I  thus  obtain  a  definite  description  of  the  5th  arcanum. 

The  fifth  card  of  the  Tarot  is — 

The  He  of  Yod  considered  negatively. 

This  is  a  synthetic  formula  comprehensible  to  those 
only  who  are  used  to  manipulating  the  sense  of  the  word 
Yod-hc-vau-he. 

It  is  therefore  necessary  to  give  further  explanations. 

He  represents  the  reflex. 

We  may  therefore  say,  more  explicitly — - 

The  5th  arcanum  is  : 

The  reflex  of  yod  considered  negatively.  But  what  is 
yod  considered  negatively  1 


78  THE   TAROT. 

To  find  this  out,  I  look  in  my  left  column  at  the  letter 
yod,  I  seek  in  the  secondary  vertical  column  the  sign  ( — ) 
negative,  and  at  the  intersection  of  these  two  lines  I  find 
the  4th  arcanum. 

The  yod  considered  negatively  is  the  4th  arcanum. 

This  leads  me  to  conclude — 

That  the  5th  arcanum  is  the  reflex  of  the  Mh  arcanum. 

All  the  arcana  can  be  explained  in  this  way  by  each 
other,  according  to  the  above  rules. 

This  tableau  is  the  key  of  the  Ars  Magna  of  Raymond 
Lulle. 


CORRESPONDENCE  BETWEEN  THE  CARDS  OF  THE  TAROT. 

To  obtain  the  origin  and  derivation  of  any  card  in  the 
Tarot,  it  suffices  to  take  the  third  card  before  it,  and  the 
third  card  after  it. 

Thus  the  8th  arcanum  is  derived  from  the  5th  arcanum, 
and  oives  rise  to  the  11th  arcanum. 


5 

i  versai  life. 

8 

Elementary 

existence. 

* 
*     # 

11 

Eeflected  and 
transitory  life 

From  this  it  ensues  that,  when  two  cards  added  together 
give  an  even  number,  we  need  only  take  the  half  of  the 
number  to  discover  the  card  which  serves  to  unite  those 
under  consideration. 

Thus,  in  order  to  discover  the  link  which  binds  the  4th 
arcanum  to  the  6th,  i.  e.  the  universal  vivifying  fluid,  to 
universal  love,  I  add  together  4  +  6  =  10,  and  I  take  one- 
half  of  the  number  obtained        =  5. 


INTRODUCTION  TO  THE  STUDY  OF  SYMBOLISM.      79 

The  5th  arcanum  (universal  life)  therefore  unites  the 
two  opposites.1 

The  passage  of  the  vivifying  fluid  (4)  into  love  (6)  is 
performed  through  the  medium  of  universal  life  (5). 

Since  each  card  of  the  Tarot  has  three  meanings,  it  is 
easy  to  philosophize  by  means  of  our  pack,  without  taking 
too  much  trouble  about  it. 

*     * 

Another  result  of  this  rule  is,  that  each  card  of  the  Tarot 
has  a  complementary  in  any  card  bearing  a  number  which, 
added  to  its  own,  gives  a  total  of  22. 

For  instance,  what  is  the  complementary  card  of  the  1st 
arcanum  ? 

It  is  the  21st  arcanum,  since  21  +  1  =  22.  What  is  the 
transition  from  1  to  21  ? 

According  to  what  we  have  just  stated  it  is  21  +  1  = 

f  =  n. 

The  11th  arcanum  (reflected  and  transitory  life)  there- 
fore forms  the  transition  between  the  1st  arcanum 
(creative  principle)  and  the  21st  arcanum  (universal 
generation). 

To  find  the  card  that  serves  as  complementary  to  an}^ 
other,  we  must  therefore  subtract  the  number  of  the  card 
in  question  from  22. 

For  instance  to  find  the  complementary  card  to  14 — 

22  —  14  =  8. 

The  8th  arcanum  is  therefore  complementary  to  the  14th. 
We  have  made  this  digression  because  all  these  details 

1  The  Hebrew  alphabet  thoroughly  establishes  this  affiliation  for 
the  letters  corresponding  to  these  three  numbers.    (See  8th  arcanum.) 


80 


THE   TAROT. 


will  be  most  useful  to  us  presently.     We  can  now  return 
to  the  study  of  our  major  arcana. 

Let  us  once  more  recall  the  manner  in  which  the  four 
first  arcana  have  given  us  the  key  to  the  symbolism  of  all 
the  others,  according  to  their  affinities  with  the  sacred 
word,  as  follows — 

THE  GENERAL  LAW  OF  THE  SYMBOLISM  OF  THE  TAROT. 

Positive 

(1) 

yod 


Negative 

Keflex  of     (2)  he 
yod 


Transition 
2nd  he  (4)     yod  of  the 


following  series 


van 

(3) 

Neuter 

Union  of  yod  and  of  lie 


CHAPTER   IX. 

HISTORY   OF   THE   SYMBOLISM   OF    THE   TAROT. 
INQUIRY   INTO   ITS   ORIGIN. 

The  Tarot  is  an  Egyptian  Book — Its  Transformations — Mantegna's 
Pack — Venetian  Tarot — Florentine  Tarot — Bolognese — Hindu 
Tarot — Chinese  Tarot — Modern  Tarots — Etteila — Marseilles — 
Besançon — Watillaux  —  Oswald  Wirth  —  Italian  and  German 
Tarots — Constitution  of  the  Symbolism  of  the  Tarot  —  The 
16  primitive  Hieroglyphic  Signs — The  22  Hebrew  Letters. 

Origin   of  the  Symbolism  of  the  Tarot. 

As  we  have  already  stated,  each  card  of  the  Tarot  repre- 
sents a  symbol,  a  number,  and  an  idea. 

We  have  endeavoured  to  avoid  empiricism  as  far  as 
possible  in  the  course  of  these  explanations  ;  and  therefore 
we  first  studied  the  numbers,  for  they  are  the  most  settled 
element,  and  give  the  most  unvarying  results  in  their 
combinations. 

Relying  firmly  upon  the  basis  which  we  have  hus  con- 
structed, we  can  now  study  the  symbols  with  absolute 
assurance. 

We  hope  that  for  this  purpose  you  have  procured  the 
Tarot l  of  Marseilles,  the  most  correct  in  its  symbolism,  or 

1  See  p.  89,  the  price  of  the  Tarots  and  the  addresses  where  they 
may  be  procured. 

G 


82  THE   TAROT. 

else  the  twenty-two  keys  designed  by  Oswald  Wirth  ; 
perhaps — and  this  is  really  almost  indispensable — you  have 
both  of  them. 

You  need,  then,  only  deal  the  cards  upon  the  table,  to 
see  at  once  that  the  personages  depicted  upon  them  all 
wTear  dresses  of  the  Renaissance  period. 

And  yet,  is  this  pack  of  cards  of  ancient  origin  ?  It 
does  not  appear  so. 

Look  at  your  figures  more  attentively  and  you  will  soon 
perceive  Egyptian  symbols  [the  triple  cross  (No.  5),  ibis 
(No.  17)]  combined  with  these  Eenaissance  costumes. 

They  at  once  prove  that  the  Tarot  of  Marseilles  is  really 
the  exact  representation  of  the  primitive  Egyptian.  Tarot, 
slightly  altered  to  the  epoch  denoted  by  the  costumes. 
Only  the  gypsies  possess  the  primitive  pack  intact. 

The  studies  of  those  learned  men  who  have  investigated 
the  Tarot  have  confirmed  this  fact  by  the  strongest 
evidence.  And  the  works  of  Chatto,1  Boiteau,2  and  above 
all  of  Merlin,3  show  us  that  history  corroborates  our 
assertion. 

Merlin  conducted  his  researches  very  scientifically,  and 
succeeded  in  discovering  the  original  of  our  Tarot  of 
Marseilles  in  an  Italian  Tarot  at  Venice,  the  father  of  all 
the  later  packs. 

He  believes  also  that  he  has  discovered  the  origin  of 
this  Venetian  Tarot  in  the  philosophical  pack  of  Mantegna. 

But  he  cannot  determine  the  origin  of  this  pack,  because 

1  Chatto,  Facts  and  Speculations  on  the  Origin  and  History  of 
Playing  Cards  in  Europe.     8vo.     London,  1848. 

2  Boiteau,  Les  Cartes  à  Jouer  et  la  Cartomancie.    4to.    Paris,  1854. 

3  Merlin,  Origine  des  Cartes  à  Jouer,  recherches  nouvelles  sur  les 
Naïbis,  les  Tarots  et  sur  les  autres  Espèces  de  Cartes.  A  work  orna- 
mented with  70  illustrations.     4to.     Paris,  1869. 


HISTORY  OF  THE   SYMBOLISM  OF  THE  TAROT..      83 

the  one  that  Merlin  believed  to  be  the  source  of  the 
Tarot  is  on  the  contrary  a  reproduction,  made  by  one  of 
the  Initiates.  The  Ars  Magna  of  Kaymond  Lulle  was 
produced  in  the  same  way  ;  it  is  drawn  entirely  from  the 
Tarot. 

We  have  given  for  reference  the  pack  of  Mantegna, 
known  in  the  trade  as  the  cards  of  Baldini,  as  well  as 
the  packs  of  the  Italian  Tarots,  from  which  most  of  ours 
are  derived. 

The  tableau 1  which  indicates  the  connection  between 
the  Tarot  packs  and  that  of  Mantegna  ought  to  be  reversed, 
and  on  the  contrary  show  the  cards  of  Mantegna  derived 
from  the  Tarot,  as  we  have  stated. 

Here  are  the  figures  of  the  Tarots.     (See  page  84.) 

1  Page  86. 


84 


THE   TAROT. 


o 
m 

H 

«i 


-     eg 

33      © 


b.    EL  ^ 
^  ^  !>  a}  ^  b  c 


CD 

£3 

CD 

CD 

CO 

CD 

to 

s 

f-l 

. 

r-1 

eti 

ed 

o 

Pi 

u 

-4-J 

H 

«+-i 

-4— « 

Q  , 

r* 

•  r- 1 

GQ 

pj 

c5 

jj 

1-3 

m 

00 

U 

P=H 

<î 


b£ 
o 

ance. 

ce. 

[ 

a  s 

1— 1 

o 

em  per 
ruden 

hfl 

CD 
O 

•i— i 
-^ 
CO 

t>3 

-4-2 

—  ^ 

.stro 
hroi 

co 
O 

CD 

eg     &t  2 

^  l2  "^ 

>— 1 

<3  O 

o 

H  Ph 

CE 

Ho 

oWf^ 

r-H      CM 

CO 

-<+i    uo 

CO 

t^ 

00    Ci    o 

CO      CO 

CO 

CO    CO 

CO 

CO 

CO    OO    -^H 

.    ô 

^ 

f-i 

g 

•■G     hi 

&  SB  b 

c3 

o 

t-       CD 

am  m 
gic. 

o 

CD 

omet 
ithm 

_CD* 

CO 

-*-2 
CD 

r5          °      "O 
•r-J       £         CD 

O 

f-t     o 

H£3 

CD      H 

o 

pCj     co    _c3 

O  HÎ   P3  O  <! 

fi  fi  <1  H 

r— i  cm 

CO 

**H   xo 

CO 

1^ 

00   o   o 

CM    CM 

CM 

CM    CM 

CM 

CM 

CM    CM    CO 

CD 

c3 

CD 

Calliope. 
Urania. 

o 

CD 

'co 

Ph 

CD 
H 

d 

-4-2 

(-1 

Polyhymn 
Thalia. 

Melpomen 
Euterpe. 
Clio. 
Apollo. 

fi 

i—i    CM 

CO 

"* 

lO 

CO 

N    00    O    O 

-1-3 

C3 

M 

08      ? 

to   > 
to  2 

CO 
'■4-2 

03 

'o 

CD 

CD 
O 

-4-= 

bO 
•  i— i 

oge. 
ing. 
mpero 
ope. 

H 

|  Q       M 

c3 

S 

fc 

Ph 

P  M  W  fi 

CD      CD 

CD 

CD 

CD 

03 

O      CD      CD      CD 

r£3      JCJ 

rt 

_£ 

^ 

rj 

^      pC|     J5      -^ 

H  H 

H 

H 

H 

H 

H  H  H  H 

f— i    CM 

CO 

^H 

»o 

o 

n  co  a  o 
i— i 

CO 

C0 

CD 

Dh 

CD 

t-H 

o 

% 

r1 

-+J 

rr>      ce 

CO      ij 

H 

H 

CD  ' 
CD 

S      CD 

HMOf^œ 


^KOfly 


-  <q 


2    co    o 

'£       ES       CD 


a 
& 


co     co 

CD       >-, 
p      CO 


O      k— |         CD       r"1      r^-i 

Ph  ^  gq  ►>  H 


S  fi  O  fi  <J 


HISTORY  OF  THE  SYMBOLISM  OF  THE   TAROT.       85 


ORIGIN   OF   THE   OTHERS. 


Minchiate  of  Florence, 

Venetian  Tarot, 

Tarot  of  Bologna, 

97  cards, 

78  cards, 

62  cards, 

of  which  40  are  Tarots. 

c 

0 

if  which  21  are  Tarots. 

of  which  21  are  Tarots. 

0  The  Foolish  Man. 

The  Foolish  Man. 

0  The  Foolish  Man. 

1  The  Juggler. 

1 

The  Juggler. 

1  The  Juggler. 

2  The  Grand  Duke. 

2 

The  High  Priestess 

2  The  High  Priestess. 

3  The    Emperor    of 

3 

The  Empress. 

3  The  Empress. 

the  West. 

4  The    Emperor    of 

4 

The  Emperor. 

4  The  Emperor. 

the  East. 

5  Love. 

5 

The  Pope. 

5  The  Pope. 

6  Temperance. 

6 

The  Lovers. 

6  Love. 

7  Strength. 

7 

The  Chariot. 

7  The  Chariot. 

8  Justice. 

8 

Justice. 

8  Temperance. 

9  The  Wheel  of  For- 

9 

The  Hermit. 

9  Justice. 

tune. 

10  The  Chariot. 

10 

The  Wheel  of  For- 
tune. 

10  Strength. 

11  The  Old  Man,  with 

11 

Strength. 

11  Fortune. 

an  Hour-glass. 

12  The  Hanged  Man. 

12  The  Hanged  Man. 

12  The  Old  Man. 

13  Death. 

13 

Death. 

13  The  Hanged  Man. 

14  The  Devil. 

14 

Temperance. 

14  Death. 

15  Hell. 

15 

The  Devil. 

15  The  Devil. 

16  Hope. 

16 

The       Lightning- 

16  Thunder. 

17  Prudence. 

struck  Tower. 

18  Faith. 

19  Charity. 

20  Fire. 

21  Water. 

22  The  Earth. 

23  Air. 

24  The  Scales. 

25  The  Virgin. 

26  The  Scorpion. 

27  The  Ram. 

28  Capricornus. 

29  Sagittarius. 

30  Cancer. 

31  Pisces. 

32  Aquarius. 

33  The  Lion. 

34  The  Bull. 

35  The  Twins. 

36  The  Star. 

17 

The  Star. 

17  The  Star. 

37  The  Moon. 

18 

The  Moon. 

18  The  Moon. 

38  The  Sun. 

19 

The  Sun. 

19  The  Sun. 

39  The  Universe. 

20 

The  Last  Judgment. 

20  The  Universe. 

40  Fame. 

21 

The  Universe. 

21  The  Angel. 

86 


THE  TAROT. 


CORRESPONDENCE    BETWEEN    THE    PRIMITIVE    ITALIAN    PACKS    AND 
THE    MODERN    TAROT — 


Modern  Tarot. 
The  King 
The  Knight 
The  Knave 

The  Emperor 
The  Pope 
Temperance 
Strength. 
Justice 
The  Moon 
The  Sun 


Mantegna. 
King 
Knight 
Knave 


No.  8  of  Mantegna 
6  — 

2  — 


4  of  the  Tarot  is  the  IX  series  E  of  Mantegna 

5  —  X  —  E  — 
14  —  34  —  B  — 
11             —               36     —    B       — 

8  _  37     —    B       — 


18 
19 


41     —     A       — 
44     _    A       — 


The  Foolish  Man  (unnumbered)  Beggar 


The  Star  17 

The  Chariot  7 

The  Hermit  9 

The  Universe  21 


Venus 

Mars 

Saturn 
j  Jupiter 
I  First  cause 


No.   1  Mantegna 
42         — 
10        — 

47  — 
46  — 
50        — 


If,  however,  the  existence  of  purely  Egyptian  symbols 
in  these  so-called  Italian  Tarots  do  not  convince  the 
reader,  a  few  words  on  the  transformation  of  the  Tarot  in 
the  East,  and  in  other  countries  of  Europe  besides  Italy, 
will  completely  enlighten  him  on  the  subject. 


HINDU   TAROTS. 

In  spite  of  Merlin's  assertions,  the  Tarot  represents  the 
summary  of  the  scientific  knowledge  of  the  ancients.  This 
is  unquestionably  proved  by  Chatto's  researches  amongst 
Orientals  on  this  subject. 

In  fact  the  Indians  possess  a  game  of  chess,  the  Tchcttu- 


HISTORY  OF  THE  SYMBOLISM  OF  THE  TAROT.       87 

ranga,  evidently  derived  from  the  Tarot,  from  the  manner 
in  which  the  men  are  arranged  in  four  series. 

Elephants,  chariots,  horses,  foot-soldiers. 

The  Mussulmen  of  India  also  possess  a  pack  of  cards 
that  is  derived  from  the  old  symbols  of  the  Tarot:  the 
Gungeifu  or  Ghendgifeh. 

This  game  is  composed  of  eight  series  of  twelve  cards 
each,  divided  in  this  way — 

Superior  Section  Inferior  Section 

or  Bishbur  :  or  Kunbur  : 

Crowns  Harps 

Moons  Suns 

Sabres  Royal  diplomas 

Slaves.  Bales  of  Merchandise. 


CHINESE   TAROT. 

An  inexperienced  eye  might  find  some  difficulty  in 
recognizing  the  Tarot  in  these  games,  but  the  Chinese 
have  given  us  an  irrefutable  argument  in  favour  of  our 
assertion,  in  the  arrangement  of  their  Tarot,  which  is 
represented  by  the  figure  on  page  83. 

We  have  placed  the  correspondences  of  the  minor  and 
major  arcana,  and  of  the  four  letters  of  the  tetragrammaton» 
above  this  figure. 

A  description  of  this  Chinese  pack  will  be  found  in 
Court  de  Gcbelin  {Le  Monde  Primitif),  and  in  the  work 
of  J.  A.  Vaillant. 

With  regard  to  the  foreign  Tarots,  we  possess  nearly  all 
of  them  at  the  present  time,  and  this  induces  us  to  name 
the  various  editions  of  the  Tarot  which  we  are  now  able 
to  consult. 


88 


THE   TAROT. 


MINOR     ARCANA. 

yod  he  vau 


MAJOR    ARCANA. 


he 


1 

15 

29 

43 

57 

71 

2 

16 

30 

44 

58 

72 

3 

17 

31 

45 

59 

73 

4 

18 

32 

46 

60 

74 

5 

19 

33 

47 

61 

75 

6 

20 

34 

48 

62 

76 

7 

21 

35 

49 

63 

77 

8 

22 

36 

50 

64 

9 

23 

37 

51 

65 

10 

24 

38 

52 

66 

11 

25 

39 

53 

67 

12 

26 

40 

54 

68 

13 

27 

41 

55 

69 

14 

28 

42 

56 

70 

MODERN   TAROTS. 

The  following  are  the  most  important  of  these  modern 
Tarots — 

The  Tarot  of  Etteila. 
The  Italian  Tarot. 
The  Marseilles  Tarot. 
The  Tarot  of  Besançon. 


HISTORY   OF   THE  SYMBOLISM   OF   THE   TAROT.      89 

The  double-headed  Tarot  of  Besançon. 

The  Tarot  of  Watillaux. 

The  German  Tarot. 

The  Tarot  of  Oswald  Wirth. 

THE  FRENCH  TAROT  PACKS. 

The  Tarot  of  Etteila  is  of  no  symbolic  value,  it  is  a  bad 
mutilation  of  the  real  Tarot. 

This  pack  is  used  by  all  our  fortune-tellers.  Its  sole 
interest  lies  in  the  strangeness  of  its  figures.  It  can  be 
obtained  for  5  or  8  francs  from  all  the  great  card-sellers  in 
Paris. 

The  Tarot  of  Watillaux,  or  pack  of  the  princess  Tarot, 
reproduces  the  minor  arcana  very  correctly.  It  is  worth 
consideration  on  this  account. 

The  Italian  Tarot,  that  of  Besancon  and  of  Marseilles,1 
are  unquestionably  the  best  which  we  now  possess,  par- 
ticularly the  latter,  which  fairly  reproduces  the  Primitive 
symbolical  Tarot. 

FOREIGN    PACKS    OF   TAROTS. 

Besides  the  Italian  we  must  quote  the  German  Tarot, 
in  which  the  symbols  of  the  minor  arcana  are  different. 

For 

The  Cups  are  represented  by  The  Hearts 
The  Pentacles         —  The  Bells 

The  Swords  —  The  Leaves 

The  Sceptres  —  The  Acorns 

However,  this  Tarot  is  a  very  bad  one. 

1  These  Tarots  are  to  be  found  in  Paris,  20  Rue  de  la  Banque, 
M.  Pussey,  at  4  francs  ;  and  one  is  published  in  London  by  Mr. 
George  Redwny,  15  York  Street,  Covent  Garden. 


90  THE   TAROT. 

THE   TAROT    OF   OSWALD   WIRTH. 

It  became  necessary  to  have  a  Tarot  pack  in  which  the 
symbolism  was  definitely  established.  This  work,  suggested 
by  Eliphas  Levi,  who  defined  the  principles  on  which  it 
was  to  be  based,  has  been  accomplished  by  Mr.  Oswald 
Wirth. 

This  clever  occultist,  aided  by  the  advice  of  Stanislas  de 
Guaita,  has  designed  the  series  of  the  twenty-two  major 
arcana.  These  drawings  reproduce  the  Tarot  of  Marseilles, 
with  the  symbolical  modifications  suggested  by  the  re- 
searches of  Eliphas  JJ3vi  upon  this  important  question. 

Owin^  to  the  kindness  of  M.  Poire],  who  assisted  the 
work  by  printing  these  designs,  we  now  possess  a  mar- 
vellous symbolic  document  in  the  Tarot  of  Oswald  Wirth. 

It  is  therefore  wise,  as  we  have  already  said,  for  those 
who  wish  to  study  the  Tarot  very  thoroughly,  to  procure 
the  Tarot  de  Marseilles,  and  that  of  Oswald  Wirth. 

We  shall  use  them  both  presently  in  our  explanation  of 
the  symbolical  meaning  of  each  card, 

But  before  passing  to  the  study  of  these  symbols,  card 
by  card,  we  must  see  if  there  are  no  means  of  positively 
defining  the  symbolism  of  the  Tarot. 

HOW   CAN   WE   HOPE    TO    DEFINE    THE   SYMBOLISM    OF   THE 
TAROT   CONCLUSIVELY  ? 

We  have  already  and  sufficiently  explained  that  the 
Tarot  represents  the  ancient  or  occult  science  in  every 
possible  development. 

If  we  then  wish  to  find  a  solid  basis  for  the  study  of  the 
symbols  represented  in  the  22  major  arcana,  we  may 
put  the  Tarot  on  one  side  for  an  instant,  and  devote 
ourselves  to  this  ancient  science.     It  alone  can  enable  us 


HISTORY  OF  THE  SYMBOLISM  OF  THE  TAEOT.       91 

to  attain  our  end,  not  in  finding  the  explanation  of  the 
symbols,  but  in  leading  us  to  create  them  one  by  one,  by 
deducing  them  from  fixed  and  general  principles. 

We  shall  thus  commence  work  of  quite  a  new  character, 
whilst  avoiding,  so  far  as  possible,  falling  into  those  errors 
which  arise  from  the  effort  to  explain  the  symbols  of  the 
Tarot  by  themselves,  instead  of  seeking  for  their  solution 
at  their  original  source. 

The  first  step  in  the  search  for  these  particular  symbols 
leads  us  to  discuss  the  grave  problem  of  the  origin  of 
symbolism  itself. 

We  cannot  enter  upon,  much  less  solve,  this  question  by 
ourselves  ;  we  shall  therefore  quote  the  opinions  of  several 
writers  upon  this  subject.  Truth,  having  Unity  for  its 
criterion,  the  agreement  of  various  conclusions  in  one 
point  will  be  a  valuable  guide  for  us. 

Claude  de  Saint-Martin,  the  unknown  philosopher,  states 
in  his  book,  the  Livre  des  Rarpports,  that  the  primitive 
alphabet  is  composed  of  sixteen  signs.  He  received  these 
data,  so  far  as  we  can  judge,  from  intuitive  revelation, 
joined  to  the  teaching  of  the  Illuminism,  of  which  he  was 
one  of  the  members. 

Lacour,  in  his  book  on  the  Elohim  or  Gods  of  Moses, 
has  inductively  determined  the  existence  of  a  primitive 
alphabet,  also  composed  of  sixteen  signs.  Another 
author,  Barrois,  pursuing  inquiries  of  quite  a  different 
nature,  also  reaches  the  conclusion  of  the  existence  of 
sixteen  primitive  signs  in  his  system  of  Dactylology. 

But  the  labours  of  Court  de  Gébelin,  and  above  all  of 
Fctbre  d' Olivet,  are  the  most  remarkable  in  this  respect.  In 
his  Langue  Hébraïque  Restituée,  this  learned  Initiate  estab- 
lished the  existence  of  primitive  hieroglyphic  signs  from 
which  the  Hebrew  letters  are  derived. 


92 


THE   TAROT. 


AU  these  writers,  starting  from  very  different  points, 
agree  in  their  conclusions,  and  this  gives  us  a  strong 
argument  in  favour  of  the  truth  of  their  inquiries. 

But  it  matters  very  little  to  us  whether  these  16 
primitive  signs  are  the  direct  origin,  either  of  the  Hebrew, 
Sanscrit,  Chinese,  or  Greek  letters.  The  identity  of  source 
tends  strongly  to  identity  of  results,  and  any  one  of  these 
derivative  alphabets  will  answer  our  purpose. 

The  Hebrew  alphabet,  composed  of  22  letters,  seems 
preferable  to  us,  on  account  of  the  concordance  between 
the  number  of  its  letters  and  that  of  the  Arcana  in  our 
Tarot. 

We  shall  therefore  adopt,  as  the  starting-point  of  our 
study,  the  Hebrew  alphabet  of  22  letters,  derived  from  the 
16  primitive  hieroglyphic  signs. 

This  conclusion  is  scarcely  reached,  when  fresh  light 
shines  upon  us  from  all  sides. 

Guillaume  Postel l  reveals  to  us  the  connection  between 
the  Hebrew  letters  and  the  Tarot  ;  Van  Hclmont  fils,2 
Claude  de  Saint- Martin?  Fabre  d' Olivet,4,  all  confirm  our 
opinion  ;  lastly,  Eliplias  Levi 5  also  throws  the  weight  of  his 
marvellous  learning  into  the  question. 

But  we  are  more  surprised  to  find  that  the  Sepher 
Yetzirah,6  an  old  book  of  the  Kabbalah,  which  contains  a 
study  upon  the  formation  of  the  Hebrew  alphabet,  arrives 
at  a  division  of  the  letters  which  exactly  corresponds  with 


1  Clavis. 

2  Origin  of  Language  (Latin). 

3  Tableaux  naturels  des  rapports  qui  existent  entre  Dieu,  Vhomme 
et  l'Univers. 

4  La  Langue  Hébraïque  Restituée. 

5  Rituel  de  la  Haute  Magie. 

6  Translated  into  English  by  Dr.  Wynn  Westcott. 


HISTORY  OF  THE  SYMBOLISM  OF  THE  TAROT.       93 

the  astrological  data  contained  in  an  old  manuscript  in 
the  Vatican,  upon  which  Christian 1  based  his  horoscopic 
works. 

One  single  and  identical  conclusion  arises  from  all  these 
different  points  of  view  :  the  value  of  the  Hebrew  letter  as 
a  symbol. 

In  it  we  possess  a  real  symbol,  of  which  we  can  ascertain 
not  only  the  meanings,  but  also  the  origin. 

We  could  then  make  a  Tarot  exclusively  composed  of 
Hebrew  letters  and  of  numbers,  but  this  is  not  our  object  ; 
we  are  seeking  to  discover  in  the  symbolism  of  the  Hebrew 
characters  the  symbolism  of  the  Tarot,  and  we  shall  thus 
realize  our  intention  of  ascertaining  deductively  the  value 
of  the  figures  of  the  Tarot  and  the  reason  they  have  been 
chosen. 

THE  HEBREW   LETTERS   AS   THE  BASIS    OF  THE    SYMBOLICAL 

TAROT. 

We  shall  now  study  the  Hebrew  letters  one  by  one,  in 
determining  successively — 

1st.  The  hieroglyphic  value  of  each  one  of  them  according 
to  its  origin  (Fabre  d'Olivet,  Barrois)  ; 

2nd.  Its  symbolic  value  derived  from  this  hieroglyphic 
(Fabre  d'Olivet,  Eliphas  Levi,  Christian)  ; 

3rd.  Its  astronomical  value  (Christian  and  the  Sepher 
YetziraK). 

Once  acquainted  with  these  data,  it  will  be  easy  for  us 
to  deduce  from  them  the  application  of  the  letters  to  the 
symbols  of  the  Tarot. 

But  before  we  enter  upon  this  study,  it  is  necessary  to 
say  a  few  words  upon  the  Hebrew  alphabet  in  general  and 
its  constitution. 

1  Histoire  de  la  Magie. 


94 


THE   TAKOT. 


The  alphabet  of  the  Hebrews  is  composed  of  22  letters; 
these  letters,  however,  are  not  placed  by  chance,  one  after 
the  other.  Each  of  them  corresponds  with  a  number 
according  to  its  rank,  with  a  hieroglyphic  according  to  its 
form,  with  a  symbol  according  to  its  affinities  with  the 
other  letters. 

As  we  have  already  said,  all  the  letters  are  derived  from 
one  amongst  them,  the  yod.1  The  yod  has  generated  them 
in  the  following  mariner  (see  Scpher  Yetzirah) — 

1st.  Three  mothers  : 


w 


The  A  (Aleph) 

The  M         /The  Mem) 
The  Sh        (The  Shin) 

2nd.  Seven  doubles  (double  because  they  express  two 
sounds,  the  one  positive  strong,  the  other  negative  soft)  : 

The  B  (Beth) 

The  G  (Gimel) 

The  D  (Daleth) 

The  Ch  (Caph) 

ThePh  (Pe) 

The  E  (Resh) 

The  T  (Tau) 

3rd.  Lastly,  twelve  simple,  formed  by  the  other  letters. 

To  render  this  clearer,  we  will  give  the  Hebrew  alphabet 
here,  indicating  the  quality  of  each  letter  and  its  rank. 
(See  page  95.) 

We  have  now  given  a  fixed  principle  for  symbolism  in 
the  Hebrew  letter,  and  need  not  fear  being  deceived  by 
the  false  interpretation  of  a  costume,  or  of  an  incorrect 
figure.  The  Hebrew  letter  will  be  always  there,  to  en- 
lighten us  upon  obscure  or  difficult  points. 

1  See  above  (p.  19)  :  Study  upon  the  word  Yod-he-vau-he. 


a 
1 

b 
s 

n 


HISTORY  OF  THE  SYMBOLISM   OF  THE  TAROT.       95 

We  can  therefore  safely  return  to  the  Tarot,  which  we 
have  left  to  make  this  digression. 


NUMBERS 
IN- 
ORDER 

HIERO- 
GLYPHIC 

NAMES 

VALUE   IN 

ROMAN 

LETTERS 

VALUE    IN  THE   ALPHABET 

1 

« 

aleph 

A 

mother 

2 

2 

beth 

B 

double 

3 

2 

gimel 

G 

double 

4 

1 

daleth 

D 

double 

5 

n 

he 

E 

simple 

6 

1 

vau 

V 

simple 

7 

T 

zain 

Z 

simple 

8 

n 

heth 

H 

simple 

9 

ta 

teth 

T 

simple 

10 

i 

Yod 

I 

simple  and  principle 

11 

3 

kaph 

CH 

double 

12 

b 

lamed 

L 

simple 

13 

a 

mem 

M 

mother 

14 

3 

nun 

N 

simple 

15 

D 

samech 

S 

simple 

16 

2 

ayin 

GH 

simple 

17 

S 

plie 

PH 

double 

18 

2 

tzaddi 

TS 

simple 

19 

P 

qoph 

K 

simple 

20 

n 

resh 

R 

doable 

21 

a? 

shin 

SH 

mother 

22 

i 

n 

tan 

TB 

double 

CHAPTER  X. 

THE   SYMBOLICAL   TAROT. 

THE  FIRST   SEPTENARY,  1ST   TO  ?TH   ARCANA.      THEOGONY. 

Scheme  of  Work — Key  to  the  1st  Septenary — The  1st  Card  of  the 
Tarot  the  Origin  of  all  the  others — The  three  Principles  of  the 
Absolute — The  Trinity — Figure  of  the  first  Card  and  its  Affinities 
— The  High  Priestess  and  the  Beth — The  Gimel  and  the  Empress 
— The  Daleth  and  the  Emperor — The  He  and  the  Pope — The 
Vau,  the  Lovers — Summary  of  the  1st  Septenary— Constitution 
of  God. 

Study  of  each  of  the  22  Major  Arcana. 

Scheme  of  Work. 

We  shall  now  apply  this  general  law  of  symbolism  to 
each  of  the  twenty-two  major  arcana. 

We  must  here  beg  for  the  reader's  careful  attention  in 
spite  of  the  length  of  the  subject  under  consideration. 
WTe  shall  make  every  effort  to  be  as  clear  as  possible,  and 
therefore  we  shall  first  explain  the  scheme  which  we  have 
adopted  in  the  study  of  each  of  the  cards  of  the  Tarot. 

(1st)  We  shall  always  start  from  the  hieroglyphic  sign 
which  has  sâven  birth  to  the  Hebrew  letter.  Court  de 
Gébelin  is  the  author  whom  we  shall  consult  chiefly  upon 
this  subject. 

(2nd)  We  shall  explain  from  the  hieroglyphic  character 


THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.  97 

all  the  ideas  that  can  be  progressively  deduced  from  it, 
and  which  characterize  the  Hebrew  letter  considered  as  a 
sign.  Kircher  and  Fabre  d' Olivet  are  our  authorities  in 
this  work. 

(3rd)  When  we  have  once  defined  the  ideas  signified  by 
the  Hebrew  letter,  we  shall  search  for  the  application  of 
these  ideas  in  the  symbolic  figure  of  the  Tarot. 

Eliphas  Levi,1  Christian,2  and  Barrois3  will  aid  us  in 
our  inquiries. 

(4th)  Lastly,  we  shall  determine  the  meaning  which 
must  be  attributed  to  the  card  of  the  Tarot,  according  to 
its  numerical  and  symbolical  affinities  with  all  the  others, 
in  applying  to  it  the  general  law  of  symbolism.  This 
portion  of  our  work  is  strictly  personal. 

(5th)  We  shall  end  the  study  upon  each  of  the  cards  by 
a  figure  showing  all  that  we  have  said. 

We  must  warn  the  reader  that  the  perusal  of  the 
recapitulations  only  will  be  of  no  use  as  a  means  of  under- 
standing the  card  of  the  Tarot,  and  that  the  best  way  will 
be  to  carefully  follow  the  successive  explanations  of  each 
card,  with  the  Tarot  before  him. 

We  cannot  end  this  opening  chapter  without  alluding 
to  the  basis  upon  which  we  have  established  the 
astronomical  relations  of  each  card  of  the  Tarot. 

One  of  the  most  ancient  books  of  the  Kabbalah  which  we 
possess,  the  Sepher  Yetzirah*  says  that  the  three  mother 
letters  of  the  Hebrew  alphabet  correspond  with  the  three 
worlds,  the  seven  doubles  with  the  seven  planets,  and  the 
twelve  simple  with  the  twelve  signs  of  the  zodiac.5 

1  Rituel  de  la  Hante  Magie.  2  Histoire  de  la  Magie. 

3  Dactylologie  ou  Langage  Primitif. 

4  Translated  into  French  by  Papus. 

5  See  Franck,  The  Kabbala,  Paris,  8vo. 

H 


98 


THE   TAROT. 


Now  in  studying  the  astrological  manuscript  published 
by  Christian,  we  have  discovered  that  the  numbers 
attributed  to  the  planets  by  the  author  of  this  manuscript 
exactly  correspond  with  the  double  Hebrew  letters.  The 
numbers  attributed  to  the  twelve  signs  of  the  zodiac 
exactly  correspond  with  the  simple  letters. 

We  considered  that  this  absolute  agreement  between 
two  documents  of  such  different  origin  deserved  our  serious 
attention,  and  we  have  therefore  given  with  each  letter  its 
astronomical  correspondence. 


THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT. 


99 


KEY  OF  THE  FIRST  SEPTENARY. 


ARRANGEMENT   OF   THE   FIGURES   FOR  STUDY 


Juggler 


Emperor 
4 


Empress  3         4 


The  chariot 


Hiufh  Priestess 


5 

Pope 


6  Lovers 


CHARACTER   OF   THE   FIGURES. 


Origin  of  the  Tarot         Reflex  of  1 


Naturaliz- 
ation of   3 
1  and  2 


Equilibrium  of 

3  and  of  6 
passage  from 
one  world  to 
the  other 


Reflex  of  3 
/  6  Equilibrium  of 
4  and  5 


Reflex  of  1 


Reflex  of  2 


100 


THE   TAROT. 


THE  FIRST  CARD  OF  THE  TAROT. 

ORIGIN    OF   THE   SIGNIFICATION    OF   ALL   THE   OTHERS. 

We  see  from  our  preceding  work  that  if  we  know  the 
exact  meaning  of  the  first  card  of  the  Tarot  we  can,  from 
that,  discover  the  signification  of  all  the  others. 

We  cannot  approach  this  subject  without  great  hesitation. 
The  hope  of  ascertaining  the  truth  is,  in  fact,  troubled  by 
the  possibility  of  making  a  mistake  which  might  have 
very  serious  results. 

The  work  which  we  have  already  accomplished  will, 
however,  enable  us  to  decipher  the  meaning  of  the 
symbolism  of  the  first  card  of  the  Tarot  almost  mathe- 
matically, but  the  general  meaning  only  ;  whilst  we  know 
that  each  card  must  have  not  one,  but  three  meanings. 

We  must  discover  three  sufficiently  general  principles 
to  be  applied  to  every  order  of  human  knowledge  ;  for  this 
should  be  the  object  of  the  Tarot. 

In  this  case  we  will,  as  usual,  resort  to  those  eminent 
authors  who  have  treated  these  questions  from  different 
points  of  view,  and  the  agreement  between  their  teachings 
will  give  us  new  light  to  illuminate  our  path. 

The  Pole  Hœné  Wronski,1  who  died  of  hunger  in  the 
suburbs  of  Paris,  was  perhaps  one  of  the  most  powerful 
intellects  produced  by  the  19th  century.  He  asserted  that 
he  had  discovered  the  formula  of  the  absolute,  and  his 
works  are  unquestionably  a  summary  of  one  of  the  most 
elevated  syntheses  that  we  have  ever  seen.  We  need  not 
discuss  the  doctrines  of  Wronski,  but  will  only  say  a  few 
words  upon  the  three  primitive  elements  which  enter  into 
his  law  of  creation. 

1  S^e  V  Occultisme  Contemporain  (M.  Carré). 


THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.  101 

Wronski  places  at  the  origin  of  all  creation  three 
elements,  which  he  designates  by  the  names — 

Of  Neuter  Element  (E.  K) 

Of  Element  of  Being        (E.  B.) 
Of  Element  of  Wisdom  (E.  W.) 

The  Neuter  Element  represents  the  Absolute,  Reality 
resulting  from  the  total  neutralization  of  the  two  other 
elements  by  each  other. 

The  Element  of  Wisdom  represents  the  CREATIVE  FACULTY 
with  its  especial  characteristics,  autogeny  and  spontaneity. 

The  Element  of  Being  represents  the  PERMANENT  FACULTY 
with  its  characteristics,  autothesis  and  inertia. 

Principle  of  the  Creation  or  Element  of  Wisdom. 
Principle  of  Preservation  or  Element  of  Being. 
Principle  of  Neutralization  or  Neuter  Element. 

These  are  the  three  terms  upon  which  Wronski  estab- 
lishes the  foundations  of  Reality,  and,  consequently,  of  all 
the  systems  of  creation.  We  must  remember  these 
conclusions. 

Fabre  d'Olivet,  in  his  researches  upon  the  first 
principles  which  direct  everything,1  determines  the  exist- 
ence of  three  elements,  which  he  names  Providence, 
Destiny,  and  Human  Will. 

Providence  is  the  principle  of  absolute  liberty,  of  the 
creation  of  beings  and  things. 

Destiny  is  the  principle  of  ABSOLUTE  NECESSITY,  of  the 
preservation  of  beings  and  of  things. 

Lastly,  the  Human  Will  is  a  neuter  principle  inter- 
mediate between  the  two  :  the  principle  of  mobility  and 
CHANGE  in  all  their  forms.     Now  it  is  not  necessary  to  be 

1  See  The  Golden  Verses  of  Pythagoras,  and  the  Histoire  Philo- 
sophique du  Genre  Humain. 


102  THE   TAROT. 

very  learned  to  perceive  the  absolute  agreement  which 
exivsts  between  the  two  authors  ;  the  one,  Wronski,  reached 
his  conclusions  by  mathematics,  the  other,  d'Olivet,  attained 
his  by  profound  study  of  antiquity  and  its  mysteries.  The 
words  used  may  vary,  but  the  idea  is  fundamentally  the 
same. 

Wronski's  Element  of  Wisdom  (E.  W.),  the  principle  of 
the  creation,  is  the  same  tiling  as  the  Providence  of 
d'Olivet,  who  thus  places  it  as  the  principle  of  the 
creation. 

Wronski's  Element  of  Being  (E.  B.),  the  principle  of  the 
permanent  faculty,  exactly  represents  what  d'Olivet  calls 
Destiny,  and  which  he  concludes  to  be  the  principle  of 
preservation. 

Lastly,  d'Olivet's  human  Will  corresponds  in  all  points 
with  Wronski's  Neuter  Element. 

Here  then  are  two  very  different  systems,  which  lead  to 
the  same  signification.  But  our  conclusions  do  not  stop 
here. 

If  we  study  these  three  primitive  principles  more 
attentively  we  shall  find  in  the  first  :  Providence  or  the 
Element  of  Wisdom,  represented  in  philosophy  by  the 
word  God. 

Destiny  or  Being  shows  us  its  identity  with  the  immu- 
table laws  which  govern  the  Universe. 

Lastly,  it  does  not  require  much  study  to  prove  to  us 
that  the  human  Will  responds  to  Man. 

God,  Man,  and  the  Universe. 

This  is  the  basis  of  all  the  esoteric  philosophy  of  the 
ancients,  and  not  only  Wronski  and  Fabre  d'Olivet  agree 
in  their  conclusions  respecting  this  mysterious  ternary  ; 


THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.  103 

occult  science  itself  proclaims  its  identity  with  these 
principles  by  the  mouth  of  all  its  disciples.  Hermes 
Trismcgishis,  the  Holy  Kabbalah,  Neo-Platonicism  and  the 
Alchemists  through  Pythagoras  and  all  the  Greek  philoso- 
phers assert  the  division   of  the   Great   All   into    three 

ENTITIES  OR  WORLDS. 

In  less  remote  ages  Guillaume  Postel1  gives  the  key  of 
the  Tarot  without  explaining  it,  and  the  basis  of  this  key 
is  formed  by  this  mysterious  entity — 

Deus,  Homo,  Rota. 

Triihemie  and  his  pupil  Cornelius  Agrippa 2  also  give 
us  this  fecund  and  sublime  tri  nit  v  in  all  their  analogical 
figures. 

The  Jesuit  Kircher3  describes  this  division  into  three 
worlds  as  the  basis  of  the  Egyptian  mysteries. 

Lastly,  Claude  de  Saint-Martin  has  written  a  book 
entirely  based  upon  the  keys  of  the  Tarot,  and  it  is 
entitled — Tableau  Naturel  des  rapports  qui  unissent  Dieu, 
l'Homme,  et  l'Univers. 

Let  us  question  India  upon  the  law  of  the  absolute,  she 
replies — 

Trimurti:  Brahma,  Siva,  Vishnu. 

Let  us  ask  China  for  the  great  secret  of  her  philosophy, 
and  she  will  give  us  the  Tri-grams  of  Fo-HL 

Address  ourselves  to  one  of  the  ancient  initiated 
Egyptians,  he  will  tell  us — 

1  Claris. 

2  La  Philosophie  Occulte  (La  Haye). 

3  Œdipus  sEgyptiacus. 


104 


THE  TAROT. 


Osiris,  Isis,  Horus. 

The  founder  of  Greek  Cosmogony,  the  disciple  of  the 
science  of  Egypt,  Hcsiod,  also  transmits  this  law  to  us, 
and  they  all  confirm  Louis  Lucas  when  he  states  :  *  "I 
feel  that  hidden  beneath  this  mystical  formula  of  the 
Trinity  is  one  of  the  most  important  scientific  laws  that 
man  has  ever  discovered." 

God,  Man,  and  the  Universe,  these  are  the  most  general 
principles  that  we  can  attain,  and  they  constitute  the 
three  meanings  of  the  first  card  of  the  Tarot. 

It  remains  for  us  to  ascertain  first,  whether  these 
meanings  respond  to  the  primitive  hieroglyphic,  and  then 
to  determine  how  far  they  extend  through  the  whole 
Tarot. 


1  See  Le  Roman  Alchimicpie. 


THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT. 


105 


THE   JUGGLER. 


;  le-batelfijr 

^**        I  '    ■■-■ ■■         * ^.J 

THE   JUGGLER. 


1.       « 

1st  Hebrew  letter  (Aleph). 

ORIGIN    OF    THE    SYMBOLISM    OF    THE    FIRST    CARD    OF    THE    TAROT. 

The  Aleph  hieroglyphically  expresses  Man  himself  as  a 
collective  unity,  the  master  principle,  ruler  of  the  earth. 

From  this  hieroglyphic  meaning  are  derived  ideas  of 
the  Unity  and  of  the  principle  which  détermines  it,  ideas 
which  give  to  Aleph  its  value  as  the  sign  of  Power  and 
Stability. 

Man,  or  the  Microcosm,  the  Unity  and  the  Principle  in 
all  the  worlds,  is  the  meaning  of  the  primitive  hieroglyphic, 
which,  as  we  see,  exactly  renders  the  general  ideas  which 
we  have  established. 

But  attentive  consideration  of  this  first  card  of  the 
Tarot  will  enlighten  us  still  further. 


105  THE  TAROT. 

Symbolism  of  the  First  Card  of  the  Tarot. 
THE   JUGGLER. 

If  you  take  the  first  card  of  the  Tarot  and  examine  it 
attentively,  you  will  see  that  the  form  of  the  juggler 
depicted  upon  it  corresponds  in  all  points  with  that  of  the 
letter  Aleph.  If  we  now  apply  to  the  study  of  this  card 
the  principles  of  the  elucidation  of  symbolism,  according 
to  the  Traité  Élémentaire  de  Science  Occulte,  we  at  once  find 
new  explanations  of  it. 

The  top  of  the  figure  is  occupied  by  the  divine  sign  of 
Universal  Life  oo  placed  upon  the  head  of  the  Juggler. 

The  bottom  of  the  figure  represents  the  Earth  orna- 
mented with  its  productions,  the  symbol  of  Nature. 

Lastly,  the  centre  is  occupied  by  the  Man  himself,  placed 
behind  a  table  covered  with  divers  objects. 

The  right  and  left  of  the  figure  are  occupied  by  the 
hands  of  the  Juggler,  one  of  them  bent  towards  the  Earth, 
the  other  raised  towards  Heaven. 

The  position  of  the  hands  represents  the  two  principles, 
active  and  passive,  of  the  Great  All,  and  it  corresponds 
with  the  two  columns  Jakin  and  Bohas  of  the  temple  of 
Solomon  and  of  Freemasonry. 

Man  with  one  hand  seeks  for  God  in  heaven,  with  the 
other  he  plunges  below,  to  call  up  the  demon  to  himself, 
and  thus  unites  the  divine  and  the  diabolic  in  humanity. 
In  this  way  the  Tarot  shows  us  the  rôle  of  universal 
mediator  accorded  to  the  Adam-Kadmon. 

If  we  wish  to  make  a  summary  of  the  meaning  of  the 
symbol,  so  far  as  we  have  now  deciphered  it,  we  can 
represent  it  in  this  way — 


THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.  107 

Top  Divine       Head 
Right  Left 

(Arm  lowered)     Centre  Human      Body         (Arm  raised) 
Necessity  Liberty 

Evil  Bottom  Natural      Feet  Good 

Yet  the  symbolism  of  this  first  card  of  the  Tarot  does 
not  end  here. 

The  Juggler  holds  the  wand  of  the  Mage  in  the  left 
hand,  which  he  raises,  and  the  four  great  symbols  of  the 
Tarot  are  placed  before  him. 

The  Cup,  the  Sword,  the  Pentacles  or  Talisman,  which, 
as  we  have  already  seen,  exactly  correspond  with  the 
letters  of  the  Tetraorammaton — 

Sceptre  or  Yod,  symbol  of  the  active  Principle  pre- 
eminent, and  of  God. 

Cup  or  He,  symbol  of  the  passive  Principle  pre-eminent, 
or  of  the  Universe. 

Sword,  Cross  or  Vau,  symbol  of  the  Equilibrist  Principle 
pre-eminent,  or  of  Man. 

Pentacles  or  2nd  He,  the  cyclic  symbol  of  Eternity,  which 
unites  the  three  first  Principles  in  one  Whole. 

From  the  human  point  of  view  these  symbols  correspond 
with  the  four  great  human  castes. 

The  men  of  Yod,  or  the  Inventors,  the  Producers.  The 
Nobility  of  Intellect. 

The  men  of  He,  or  the  depositaries  of  the  great  truths 
discovered  by  the  men  of  Yod:  the  Savants,  the  Judges. 
Professional  nobility. 

The  men  of  Vau,  or  the  guardians  and  defenders  of  the 
former  :  the  Warriors.     Nobility  of  the  sword. 

The  men  of  the  2nd  He,  the  multitude  from  which  the 
other  classes  are  continually  recruited:  the  People. 


108  THE   TAKOT. 

The  four  great  symbols  are  placed  upon  the  table  at 
random,  and  Man  rales  them  and  must  arrange  them  ;  in 
the  twenty-first  arcana  we  shall  find  these  symbols  arranged 
in  a  cross. 

We  already  know  that  the  first  card  of  the  Tarot  is 
completed  by  the  twenty-first  (21  + 1  =  22),  and  we  see 
why,  if  this  first  card  represents  Microcosm,  the  last  would 
represent  Macrocosm,  and  the  eleventh  card,  which  serves 
as  the  universal  link  to  all  the  complements  of  the  Tarot, 
represents  the  Vital  reflex  Current,  which  serves  as  a  link 
between  the  worlds. 

But  we  must  not  anticipate,  so  we  will  return  to  our 
first  arcanum. 

This  symbol  is  the  first  of  the  whole  Tarot,1  and  it  bears 
the  Unity  as  its  characteristic  number. 

The  Unity-principle,  the  origin  of  which  is  impenetrable 
to  human  conceptions,  is  placed  at  the  beginning  of  all 
things.  We  cannot  seize  the  origin  of  this  primal  cause, 
which  we  are  content  to  assert  according  to  the  absolute 
law  of  analogies  so  well  expressed  by  Eliphas  Levi — 

c:  Je  crois  à  V inconnu  que  Dieu  personnifie, 
Prouvé  par  l'être  même  et  par  l'immensité, 
Idéal  surhumain  de  la  philosophie, 
Parfaite  Intelligence  et  Suprême  Bonté."  2 

If  we  cannot  follow  this  Unknown  in  its  principle,  it  is 

1  It  is  curious  to  notice,  when  examining  the  position  of  the  hands 
of  the  personages  in  the  Tarot  of  Marseilles,  how  often  this  position 
represents  the  alphabetical  letter  to  which  the  figure  corresponds, 
according  to  Barrois  (system  of  dactylology  or  primitive  language). 
The  arcana  1,  2  and  5  are  especially  noticeable  in  this  respect. 
2  "  I  believe  in  the  unknown,  which  God  personifies, 
Proved  by  existence  itself  and  by  immensity, 
Superhuman  Ideal  of  all  philosophy, 
Perfect  Intelligence  and  Supreme  Benignity." 


THE   SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.  109 

at  least  easy  to  us  to  follow  it  in  its  consequences,  and 
therefore  our  study  will  be  only  the  development  of  the 
Unity-principle  in  creation,  related  according  to  the 
Cosmogony  of  ancient  initiation. 

God,  Man,  and  the  Universe  are,  then;  the  three  mean- 
ings of  our  first  card,  and  we  will  now  say  a  few  words 
upon  the  application  of  these  data  to  ail  the  other  cards 
of  the  pack. 

EXTENSION   OF   THE   THREE   GREAT   PRINCIPLES    THROUGH 

THE   TAROT. 

The  three  meanings  of  the  first  card  respectively 
represent — 

The  Creator  or  Yod. 
The  Receiver  or  He. 
The  Transformer  or  Vau. 

Lastly,  the  transition  to  the  second  He,  which  is  not 
under  consideration  at  present. 

But  the  first  card  of  the  Tarot,  taken  as  a  ivhole,  repre- 
sents the  Creator  or  Yod,  the  second  card  taken  as  a  whole 
will  therefore  represent  the  Receiver  or  He,  and  the  third 
the  Transformer  or  Vau.  Each  of  them  will  also  show  the 
four  aspects  of  Yod-he-vatc-he  in  the  idea  which  it  expresses. 

But  what  is  true  of  the  ternary,  is  also  true  of  the 
Septenary,  so  that  the  first  Septenary,  taken  as  a  whole, 
will  represent  the  Creator. 

The  second  septenary  will  represent  the  Receiver. 

The  third  the  Transformer. 

Lastly,  the  ternary  of  transition  will  represent  the 
return  of  effects  to  causes,  and  of  consequences  to  the 
principle. 

Let  us  condense  this  all  by  saying — 


110  THE   TAROT. 

1st    septenary  represents  God. 

2nd  septenary        —        Man. 

3rd  septenary         —        the  Universe. 

Moreover,  each  of  these  element?  is  contained  in  the  two 
others  in  all  points  of  their  manifestations. 


GENERAL   RECAPITULATION. 

We  have  now  to  recapitulate  all  the  acceptations  of  the 
first  card  in  a  general  figure.  As  each  card  in  the  Tarot 
will  have  the  same  recapitulation,  we  think  it  may  be 
useful  to  explain  the  scheme  followed  in  this  arrangement. 

At  the  head  of  the  figure  will  bj  found  the  Hebrew 
number  and  letter  of  the  card.  Below  it,  the  name  usually 
given  to  the  card  in  the  Tarot. 

To  the  right  of  the  figure  are  the  significations  in  the 
Three  Worlds  :  Divine,  Human,  and  Natural. 

Below  these  three  significations  is  found  the  absolute 
hey  to  each  card,  according  to  the  figure  of  the  revolutions 
of  the  word  Yod-he-vau-he.  The  Hebrew  letters  placed 
upon  the  upper  line  of  this  key  indicate  the  origin  of  the 
card  under  consideration,  the  Hebrew  letters  placed  above 
it  indicate  the  exact  meaning  of  the  card. 


THE   SYMBOLICAL  TAROT. 


ILL 


1. 

« 

The  Juggler. 

AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

Ke.y  toj              yod 

the                       -, 

Card  1              y°d 

Primitive  Hieroglyphic 

Man 

The  divine  creator  or 

Kabbalah 

Kether 

GOD 

the  Father 

Astronomy                  Xo 

affinity 

■ 

OSIRIS 

yod  of  yod 
yod -yod 

The  divine  preserver 

MAX 

ADAM 

he  of  yod 
yod-yod 

OBSERVATIONS 

The  divine  transformer 
THE  ACTIVE  UNIVERSE 

NATURA   NATURANS1 

vau  of  yod 

yod-yod 

2nd  he  of  yod 
yod-yod, 

1  According  to  Spinoza  tlie  only  free  cause  and  substance  of  all 
modes  or  phenomena,  conscious  and  unconscious,  past,  present,  and 
to  come.     [A.  P.  M.] 


112 


THE   TAROT 


THE   HIGH    PUIESTESS. 


THE   HIGH    PBIESTESS. 


2nd  Hebrew  letter  (Beth). 


ORIGIN    OF    THE    SYMBOLISM   OF    THE    SECOND   CARD  OF  THE  TAROT. 

The  Beth  hieroglyphically  expresses  the  mouth  of  man 
as  the  organ  of  speech.  Speech  is  the  production  of  man's 
inner  self.  Therefore  Beth  expresses  that  inner  self, 
central  as  a  dwelling,  to  which  one  can  retire  without  fear 
of  disturbance.  From  this  ideas  arise  of  a  Sanctuary,  an 
inviolate  abode  for  man  and  for  God.  But  the  Beth  also 
expresses  every  production  that  emanates  from  this 
mysterious  retreat,  every  internal  activity,  and  from  it 
issue  ideas  of  Instruction,  of  the  higher  Knowledge,  of 
Law,  of  Erudition,  of  occult  Science  or  Kabbalah. 

Beth  corresponds  with  the  number  2,  and  astronomically 
with  the  moon.     This  number  has  given  birth  to  all  the 


THE   SYMBOLICAL   TAROT.  113 

■passive  significations  emanated  from  the  Binary,  hence 
the  ideas  of  reflection,  of  Woman  :  applied  to  the  Moon 
relatively  to  the  Sun,  and  to  Woman  relatively  to  Man. 

THE   SECOND    CARD    OF   THE   TAROT. 

The  High  Priestess. 

God  himself,  or  God  the  Father,  reflects  himself,  and 
gives  birth  to  God  the  Man,  or  God  the  Son,  the  negative 
relatively  to  his  creator.  As  we  have  seen,  man  is  the 
divine  receiver,  therefore  this  second  card  of  the  Tarot 
will  express  all  the  ideas  of  the  first  conceived  negatively. 

The  first  card  represents  a  man  standing;  this,  on  the 
contrary,  bears  the  figure  of  a  seated  woman. 

(First  idea  of  passivity)  by  the  woman  and  by  her  position. 

The  man,  endowed  with  all  the  attributes  of  Power, 
was  placed  in  the  midst  of  nature. 

The  woman  is  adorned  with  all  the  attributes  of 
Authority  and  persuasion,  and  she  is  placed  under  the 
porch  of  the  temple  of  Isis,  between  two  columns. 

Idea  of  a  sacred  dwelling,  of  a  divine  recipient. 
The  two  columns,  like  the  arms  of  the  Juggler,  express 
the  Positive  and  the  Negative. 

The  woman  is  crowned  with  a  tiara,  surmounted  by  the 
lunar  crescent,  she  is  enveloped  in  a  transparent  veil 
falling»;  over  her  face.  On  her  breast  she  bears  the  solar 
cross,  and  upon  her  knees  lies  an  open  book,  which  she 
half  covers  with  her  mantle. 

This  is  the  picture  of  Isis,  of  Nature,  whose  veil  must 
not  be  raised  before  the  profane.  The  book  indicates  that 
the  doctrines  of  Isis  are  hidden  ;  but  she  divulges  to  the 
magi  the  secrets  of  the  true  Kabbalah,  and  of  occult 
science.     We  must  admire  this  profound  symbol. 


114 


THE  TAROT. 


The  first  card  expressed  Osiris  in  the  three  worlds  ;  this 
second  gives  us  the  signification  of  Isis,  the  companion  of 
Osiris — 

In  God  it  is  the  reflex  of  Osiris,  the  reflex  of  God  the 
Father,  Isis,  or  God  the  Son. 

In  Man  it  is  the  reflex  of  Adam  of  the  absolute  man  : 
Eve,  the  woman,  life  (mn). 

In  the  Universe  it  is  the  reflex  of  natura  naturans  :  it  is 
natura  naturata.1 


2.      "D. 
The  Hiijli  Priestess. 


AFFINITIES 


TT.        ,     .  .  The  Mouth 
Hieroglyphic-  of  Man 

Kabbalah  Chocmah 

Astronomy  The  Moon  ) 

Day  of  the  Week  Monday 

Hebrew  letter  Beth 

(Double) 


SIGNIFICATIONS 


Reflex  of  God  the  Father  or 
Osiris 

GOD 

the  Son 

ISIS 
yod  of  he 
he  he 


Reflex  of  Adam 

EVE 

the  woman 


lie  of  he 
he  he 


OBSERVATIONS 


Reflex  of  Natura  naturans 
NATURA   NATURATA 
vau  of  he 
he  he 


2nd  he  of  he 
1  That  which  follows  from  the  divine  nature. 


THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT. 


115 


THE   EMPRESS. 


THE    EMPRESS. 


3.     a 
3rd  Hebrew  letter  (Gimel). 

ORIGIN  OF  THE  SYMBOLISM  OF  THE  THIRD  CARD  OF  THE  TAROT. 

The  hieroglyphic  meaning  of  the  letter  Gimel  is  the 
throat,  the  hand  of  man  half  closed  in  the  act  of  prehen- 
sion. Hence  it  signifies  all  that  incloses,  all  that  is 
hollow,  a  canal,  an  inclosure.  The  throat  is  the  spot 
where  the  words  conceived  in  the  brain  are  formed,  or  I 
might  almost  say  embodied,  therefore  the  Gimel  is  the 
symbol  of  the  material  envelopment  of  spiritual  forms,  of 
organic  generation  under  all  its  forms,  of  all  the  ideas 
springing  from  the  corporeal  organs  or  their  actions. 

Generation  is  the  mystery  by  which  the  spirit  unites 
itself  to  matter,  by  which  the  Divine  becomes  Human. 

The  signification  of  Venus-Urania,  to  which  this  card 
corresponds,  is  easily  understood  by  the  above  explanations. 


116  THE  TAROT. 

THE   THIRD   CARD   OF   THE   TAROT. 

The  Empress. 

This  symbol  would  therefore  signify  ideas  of  generation, 
of  embodiment  in  all  the  worlds. 

A  woman  seen  full  face. 

The  human  being  becomes  corporeal  in  the  womb  of  a 
woman. 

This  woman  is  represented  with  wings,  or  in  the  centre 
of  a  radiating  sun. 

The  idea  of  the  spirituality  of  the  vivifying  Principle  of 
all  beinsrs. 

o 

She  holds  an  eaçde  in  her  riodit  hand. 

o  o 

The  eagle  is  the  symbol  of  the  soul  and  of  life  (Holy 
Spirit). 

In  the  left  hand  she  bears  a  sceptre  forming  the 
astrological  sign  of  Venus. 

The  sceptre  is  held  in  the  left  hand  to  indicate  the 
passive  influence,  which  Nature,  Venus-Urania,  or  the 
woman  exercises  in  the  generation  of  beings. 

She  wears  a  crown  with  twelve  points,  or  twelve  stars. 

The  sign  of  the  diffusion  of  the  vivifying  Principle 
through  all  the  worlds  and  of  the  sun,  through  the  Zodiac. 

The  third  card  of  the  Tarot  shows  the  result  of  the 
reciprocal  action  of  the  two  first  terms  neutralizing  each 
other  in  one  principle.  It  is  the  Neuter  Element  of  Wronski, 
the  basis  of  every  system  of  reality. 

The  absolute  creative  force,  or  Osiris,  and  the  absolute 
preservative   force,  or    Isis,  neutralize  themselves  in  the 


THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.  117 

equilibrist  force,  which  contains    in    itself   the   two  very 
different  properties  of  the  two  first  forms. 

In  God  this  would  be  the  equilibrium  of  the  Father  and 
of  the  Son,  or — • 

God  the  Holy  Ghost 

Horus 

The  universal  vivifying  force. 

In  Man  this  would  be  the  equilibrium  of  the  Adam-Eve — 
Adam-Eve 
or  Humanity. 

In  the  Universe  this  would  be  the  equilibrium  of  Natura 
naturans  and  of  Natura  naturata — 

The  World 

Conceived  like  a  being. 


118 


THE  TAROT. 


3.     a 
The  Empress. 


AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

vau 

Primitive        / 
Hieroglyphic  i 

Kabbalah 
Astronomy 
Day 
Hebrew  letter 

The  hand  in 

the  act  of 

prehension 

BlNAH 

Venus   Ç 

Friday 

Gimel  (double) 

God  the  Holy  Ghost          Horus 

THE   UNIVERSAL 

VIVIFYING   FORCE 

yod  of  vau 
vau-vau 

Adam  Eve 
HUMANITY 

lie  of  vau 
vau-vau 

OBSERVATIONS 

THE   WORLD 

vau  of  vau 
vau-vau 

2nd  lie  of  vau 
vau-vau 

THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT. 


119 


The  creative  principle  and  the  receptive  principle, 
having,  by  their  mutual  action,  given  birth  to  the  trans- 
forming principle,  a  complete  entity  is  created. 

The  term  which  now  follows  will  correspond  with  the 
second  he  of  the  sacred  word,  and  will  consequently  indicate 
the  passage  from  one  series  to  the  other. 


THE  EMPEROR. 


THE  EMPEROR. 


4.     1 
4th  Hebrew  letter  (Daleth). 

ORIGIN  OF   THE   SYMBOLISM  OF  THE   FOUETH   CARD   OF   THE  TAROT. 

The  hieroglyphic  meaning  of  Daleth  is  the  womb.  It 
suggests  the  idea  of  an  object  giving  plentiful  nourish- 
ment, the  source  of  future  growth.     The  child  is  the  living 


120  THE   TAROT. 

link,  which  in  its  neutrality  reunites  the  opposition  of  the 
sexes  ;  the  Daleth  therefore  denotes  abundance  springing 
from  division. 

Like  the  1,  it  is  a  sign  of  active  creation;  but  this 
creation  is  the  result  of  previous  actions  easily  determinable, 
whilst  the  origin  of  the  Unity  is  inaccessible  to  human 
conceptions.  The  Daleth  expresses  a  creation  made  by  a 
created  being  according  to  divine  laws.1 

The  Daleth  should  be  the  image  of  the  active  vivifying 
principle  of  the  Universe,  Jupiter,  the  reflex  of  the  Primal 
cause. 

THE  FOURTH  CARD  OF  THE  TAROT. 

The  Emperor. 

This  symbol  should  express  in  the  active  form  all  that 
the  preceding  card  expressed  in  the  passive. 
A  man  seated  in  profile. 

The  man  indicates  the  active;  his  position,  however, 
shows  that  this  activity  is  engendered  by  a  superior  term. 
The  1st  arcanum,  the  Juggler,  the  active  absolute,  was  repre- 
sented standing,  looking  to  the  front;  the  4th  arcanum, 
active  relative,  is  seated  in  profile. 

This  man  holds  in  his  right  hand  the  sceptre,  the 
symbol  of  generation  or  of  Venus  $  . 

The  sceptre  is  held  in  the  rigid  h  arid,  to  indicate  the 
active  influence,  which  the  vivifying  principle  exercises  in 
nature,  by  opposition  to  the  formative  principle  (arc.  3). 

The  man  is  bearded  and  wears  a  helmet  with  twelve 
points  (six  on  each  side).  He  is  seated  upon  a  cubic  stone, 
which  bears  the  figure  of  an  eagle. 

1  See  the  second  He,  and  the  study  upon  the  number  4. 


THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.  121 

The  helmet  indicates  the  rule  of  the  Divine  Will  in  the 
Universe,  and  its  universal  action  in  the  creation  of  Life 
(eagle). 

The  position  upon  the  cubic  stone  indicates  realization  in 
all  the  worlds. 

(1st)  Eealization  of  the  Divine  Word  by  the  creation. 
(2nd)  Eealization  of  the  ideas  of  the  Being  shared  by  the 
quadruple  work  of  the  spirit — 

Affirmation, — Negation, 
Discussion, 
Solution. 
(3rd)  Eealization  of  the  actions  conceived  by  the  Will. 

The  man's  legs  are  crossed,  his  body  forms  a  triangle  ^. 
Domination  of  the  Spirit  over  Matter. 

Considered  more  attentively,  the  figure  reproduces  the 
symbol  of  Jupiter  2  + ,  represented  by  the  fourth  card  of 
the  Tarot. 

The  fourth  card  of  the  Tarot  corresponds  to  the  second 
He,  and  therefore  bears  two  very  distinct  aspects. 

It  first  expresses  a  term  of  transition  uniting  the  first 
series  (active  and  passive  forces,  the  link  between  the  two 
forces)  to  the  following  series  ;  the  passage  from  one  world 
to  the  other. 

But  it  also  represents  this  term  of  transition,  itself 
becoming  the  first  term  in  the  following  series.  As  the 
following  series  taken  as  a  whole  is  negative  relatively  to 
the  first,  the  fourth  symbol  represents  the  active  influence 
of  the  first  series  1,  2,  3,  in  the  second  series  4,  5,  6. 

The  4  therefore  expresses  the  reflections  of  the  first 
card  in  all  its  details.  It  acts  towards  the  first  series 
exactly  as  the  second  card  acted  towards  the  first. 

This  interprets  its  meaning — 


122 


THE  TAROT. 


In  the  Divine.  Reflex  of  God  the  Father — 
The  Will. 

In  the  Human.     Reflex  of  Adam — 
The  Power. 

In  the  Natural.     Reflex  of  .Natura  naturans- 
The  Universal  Creative  Eluid. 
The  soul  of  the  Universe. 


4.    1 
The  Emperor. 


AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

Primitive     r 
„.        .     ,  .  .J  The  Womb 
Hieroglyphic  { 

Kabbalah           Chesed 

Reflex  of  God  the  Father 
THE  WILL 

Astronomy        Jupiter 
Day                    Thursday 
Hebrew  letter    Daleth  (double) 

Reflex  of  Adam 
THE  POWER 

OBSERVATIONS 

Reflex  of  Natura  naturans 

The  universal  creative  fluid 

THE  SOUL  OF  THE 
UNIVERSE 

THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT. 


123 


THE  POPE. 


THE  POPE. 


5.    n 
5th  Hebrew  letter  (He). 

ORIGIN    OF   THE    SYMBOLISM    OF    THE    FIFTH    CARD    OF    THE    TAROT. 

The  hieroglyphic  meaning  of  He  is  aspiration,  breath. 
It  is  by  aspiration  that  life  is  incessantly  maintained  and 
created.  Hence  springs  the  idea  of  all  that  animates 
attributed  to  He. 

But  life  specializes  the  being,  by  rendering  it  different 
from  any  other  ;  hence  the  idea  of  the  being  itself 
attributed  to  this  letter. 

However,  the  action  of  life  does  not  stop  here.  It  is 
also  the  mediating  principle,  which  attaches  the  material 
body  to  the  divine  spirit,  in  the  same  way  that  man  unites 
God  and  Nature  ;  life  is  to  the  man  (aleph)  what  man 
is  to  the  universe,  pre-eminently  the  mediate   principle. 


124  THE   TAROT. 

Here  we  find  the  origin  of  the  ideas  of  bond,  of  the  reunion 
of  opposing  principles,  of  religion,  attributed  to  He. 

This  letter  is  simple  ;  astronomically  it  corresponds  with 
the  igneous  sign  of  the  Ram,  which  it  explains. 

THE    FIFTH   CARD    OF   THE   TAROT. 

The  Pope. 

This  symbol  expresses  the  following  ideas — 

(1st)     Idea  of  Life,  of  animation, 
(2nd)    Idea  of  Being, 
(3rd)    Idea  of  Reunion. 

The  Initiate  of  the  mysteries  of  Isis  is  seated  between 
the  two  columns  of  the  sanctuary.  He  leans  upon  a  triple 
cross,  and  makes  the  sign  of  Esoterism  with  his  left  hand. 

The  triple  Cross  represents  the  triple  Lingam  of  Indian 
theogony  ;  that  is  to  say,  the  penetration  of  the  creative 
power  throughout  the  Divine,  the  Intellectual,  and  the 
Physical  Worlds,  which  causes  all  the  manifestations  of 
universal  life  to  appear  (first  idea). 

The  two  columns  symbolize  :  on  the  right,  the  Law  ;  on 
the  left,  the  Liberty  to  obey  and  to  disobey,  the  essence  of 
Being  (second  idea). 

The  Initiate  wears  a  tiara.  Two  crowned  men  kneel  at 
his  feet,  one  clothed  in  red,  the  other  in  black. 

Here  we  find  the  active  form  of  the  symbolism  expressed 
in  passive  form  by  the  second  card.  The  same  idea  of 
Esoterism,  of  secret  Instruction,  reappears  ;  but  the  Tuition 
is  now  practical  and  oral,  it  no  longer  requires  a  book 
(third  idea). 

As  we  see,  this  card  is  the  complement  of  the  second  ; 


THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.  125 

the  same  rule  applies  to  all  the  cards,  when  the  total  of 
their  number  makes  7.     Thus — 

3  4 

The  Empress  is  completed  by  The  Emperor 

4+3=7 
J  =  28  =  10  =  1 

2  5 

The  High  Priestess        is  completed  by  The  Pope 

2  +  5  =  7 

1  6 

The  Juggler  is  completed  by  The  Lovers 

1  +  6  =  7. 

The  fifth  card  of  the  Tarot  corresponds  with  the  letter 
he  of  the  sacred  word.  It  is  the  direct  reflection  of  the 
4th  arcanum,  and  the  indirect  reflection  of  the  2nd 
arcanum.     It  therefore  signifies — 

In  the  Divine.     Reflex  of  the  Will — 

Intelligence 
(characteristic  of  God  the  Son). 

In  the  Human.     Reflex  of  the  Power — ■ 

Authority 
(characteristic  of  the  Woman). 
Religion.     Faith. 

In  Nature.     Reflex  of  the  Soul  of  the  World,  or  of  the 
Universal  creative  fluid — 

The  Universal  Life 
(characteristic  of  Natura  naturata). 


126 


THE 

TAROT 

5. 

n 

The 

Pope. 

AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

Primitive      f 

TT.        -,     -,  .    \  Breath 
Hieroglyphic  [ 

Kabbalah           Pechad 

Keflex  of  the  Will 
INTELLIGENCE 

Astronomy        The  Earn 
Month                 March 
Hebrew  letter,  He  (simple) 

Keflex  of  Power 

AUTHORITY 

RELIGION— FAITH 

OBSERVATIONS 

Reflex  of  the  soul  of  the 

world 
THE  UNIVERSAL  LIFE 

Universal  life  is  the  negative  part  of  the  vivifying 
universal  fluid.  Their  reciprocal  action  will  give  rise 
to  the  universal  attraction  or  universal  Love  represented 
by  the  6th  arcanum. 


THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT. 


127 


G     L'AMOUREUX.      1 


THE   LOVERS. 


THE    LOVERS. 


6.     1 
The  6th  Hebrew  letter  (Van). 

ORIGIN    OF    THE    SYMBOLISM    OF    THE    SIXTH    CARD    OF    THE    TAROT. 

The  hieroglyphic  sign  for  the  Vau  is  the  eye,  all  that 
relates  to  light  and  brilliancy.  The  eye  establishes  the 
link  between  the  external  world  and  ourselves  ;  by  it  light 
and  form  are  revealed  to  us.  The  dominant  idea  expressed 
by  this  letter  will  therefore  be  that  of  a  connection,  of  a 
link  between  antagonists.  We  have  already  dwelt  at  some 
length  upon  the  Vau,  but  we  think  it  may  be  useful  to 
quote  Fabre  d'Olivet's  observations  upon  this  letter  in 
extenso — 

"  This  sign  is  the  image  of  the  deepest  and  most  in- 
conceivable mystery,  the  image  of  the  knot  which  re- 
unites, or  of  the  point  which  separates,  the  nothing  from 


128  THE  TAROT. 

the  being.  It  is  the  universal  convertible  sign,  which 
forms  the  passage  from  one  nature  to  the  other  ;  com- 
municating on  one  side  with  the  sign  of  light  and  of 
spiritual  sense  i  (a  pointed  Vau),  which  is  but  a  higher 
form  of  itself;  on  the  other  hand  linking  itself  in  its  de- 
generation  with  Ayin  (V),  the  sign  of  darkness  and  of  the 
material  senses,  which  a^ain  is  but  a  lower  form  of  itself." 
The  Vau  is  the  second  simple  letter;  astronomically  it 
represents  the  second  sign  of  the  zorliac,  the  Bull. 

THE   SIXTH   CARD    OF   THE   TAROT. 

The  Lovers. 

This  symbol  represents  reunion,  antagonism,  with  all 
their  consequences. 

A  beardless  youth  (our  Juggler  of  the  1st  arcanum), 
but  without  a  hat,  is  standing  motionless  in  the  angle 
where  two  roads  meet.  His  arms  form  a  diagonal  cross 
upon  his  breast. 

The  repetition  of  the  1st  arcanum  under  another  form. 
Here  the  man  is  not  one  of  the  Initiates.  He  does  not 
know  how  to  direct  the  magnetic  currents  of  the  Astral 
Light  ;  he  is  therefore  plunged  in  the  antagonism  of  the 
different  ideas  which  he  cannot  master. 

Two  women,  one  on  his  right,  the  other  on  his  left, 
each  with  one  hand  upon  his  shoulder,  point  to  the  two 
roads.  The  woman  on  the  right  has  a  circle  of  gold  upon 
her  head,  the  one  on  the  left  is  dishevelled  and  crowned 
with  vine  leaves. 

The  two  arms  of  the  Juggler,  expressing  the  positive  and 
negative,  the  two  columns  of  the  temple  of  Isis,  expressing 
necessity  and  liberty,  are  here  personified  by  the  two 
women,  who  represent  Vice  and  Virtue. 


THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.  129 

The  future  of  the  young  man  depends  upon  the  road 
which  he  chooses,  whether  he  becomes  one  of  the  Initiates, 
the  Mage  of  the  1st  arcanum  (the  spiritual  1),  or  the  iash 
thunder-stricken  personage  of  the  16th  arcanum  (the  37). 

The  spirit  of  Justice  floats  above  this  group  in  a  radiant 
halo  ;  he  bends  his  bow  and  aims  the  arrow  of  Punishment 
at  the  personification  of  Vice. 

A  profound   symbol  indicating  that  if  man  chooses  the 

path    of   Virtue    he   will    not    be   left  unaided,    but    that 

Providence  will  ally  itself  to  his  will  and  assist  him   to 
overcome  vice. 

In  short,  this  hieroglyphic  expresses  the  struggle 
between  the  passions  and  conscience,  the  antagonism  of 
ideas. 

But  this  antagonism  is  also  the  most  powerful  natural 
producer  that  exists  in  the  world,  when  it  resolves  itself 
into  Love,  which  attracts  the  opponents  and  unites  them 
for  ever. 

This  sixth  card  of  the  Tarot  must  be  regarded  under 
two  aspects,  which  tend  to  the  same  signification. 

1.  As  3  of  the  4,  that  is  to  say,  as  representing  the 
4th  arcanum,  or  the  reflection  of  1  considered  in  its 
relation  to  union. 

2.  As  balancing  4  and  5  ;  this  is  shown  in  the  triangle 
formed  by  the  second  ternary — 


Each  card  balances  the  two  others. 

K 


130  THE   TAROT. 

The  4  balances  the  5  and  the  6. 
The  5  —  the  4  and  the  6. 
The  6      —        the  4  and  the  5. 

Its  signification  proceeds  from  this  : — 

In  the  Divine.     The  Equilibrium  between  Will  and  In- 
telligence— 

Beauty 

(characteristic  of  the  Holy  Spirit). 

In  the  Human.     The  Equilibrium  between  Power  and 
Authority — 

Love 

(characteristic  of  Humanity). 
Charity. 
In  Nature.    The  Equilibrium  between  the  Universal  soul 
and  the  Universal  life— 

The  Universal  Attraction. 
Universal  Love. 


THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT. 


131 


6.     1 

The  Lovers. 


AFFINITIES 


Primitive 


\  The  eye,  The  ear 
Hieroglyphic  J 


Kabbalah 

Astronomy 

Month 


TlPHERETH 

The  Bull 
April 


Hebrew  letter    Yau  (simple) 


OBSERVATIONS 


SIGNIFICATIONS 


Equilibrium  of  Will  and 


Intelligence 


BEAUTY 


Equilibrium  of  Power  and 
Authority 

LOYE 
CHARITY 


Equilibrium  of  the 

Universal  Soul  and  the 

Universal  Life 

THE  UNIVERSAL 
ATTRACTION 

or 

UNIVERSAL  LOYE 


132 


THE  TAROT. 
1st  Septenary. 


CONSTITUTION    OF   GOD. 


CHAPTER  XL 

SECOND   SEPTENARY.      ARCANA   7   TO    13. 
ANDROGONY. 

Key  to  the  2nd  Septenary — The  Zain  and  the  Chariot — The  Heth 
and  Justice — TheTeth  and  the  Hermit — The  Yod  and  the  Wheel 
of  Fortune — The  Kaph  and  Strength — The  Lamed  and  the 
Hnnged  Man. 

Summary  of  the  2nd  Septenary — Constitution  of  Man. 

Key  to  the  Second  Septenary. 

ARRANGEMENT    OF   THE    FIGURES    FOR    STUDY. 

Chariot         Wheel  of  Fortune 
7  10 


The  Hermit  9 


10 


13 

Death 


13    M  2  The  Hanged 
Man 


8 
Justice 


11 

Strength 


134 


THE  TAROT. 


CHARACTER    OF    THE    FIGURES. 


Influence  of  the  1st 
septenary  in  the  2nd 

7 


Keflex  of  7 
10 


Equilibrium 
of  9 

7  and  8 


10 


Equilibrium 

of  9  and  12 

Passage  from 

one  world  to 

the  other 


13 


8 


Keflex  of  7 


11 

Keflex  of  8 


12 


Reflection  of  9 

Equilibrium 

of 

10  and  11 


The  1st  septenary  has  shown  us  the  World  of  'principles, 
or  of  the  Creation  under  all  its  aspects  ;  we  shall  now  study 
the  World  of  laws,  or  of  Preservation. 


7.    t 
7th  Hebrew  letter  (Zain). 

ORIGIN  OF  THE  SYMBOLISM  OF    THE  SEVENTH  CARD  OF    THE  TAROT. 

Hieroglyphically  the  Zain  expresses  an  arrow,  and 
therefore  it  suggests  the  idea  of  a  vjccvpon,  of  the  instru- 
ment which  man  uses  to  rule  and  conquer,  and  to  attain  his 
object. 

The  Zain  expresses  victory  in  all  the  worlds.  As  a 
simple  letter  it  corresponds  with  the  astronomic  sign  of 
the  Twins  in  the  Zodiac. 


SECOND  SEPTENARY. 


135 


THE   CHARIOT. 


TXTH  ARI 0 T  JT 

THE   CHARIOT. 


SEVENTH  CARD  OF  THE  TAROT. 

The  Chariot. 

The  symbolism  of  this  card  corresponds  in  all  points 
with  the  ideas  which  it  expresses. 

A  Conqueror,  crowned  with  a  coronet,  upon  which  rise 
three  shining  Pentagrams  of  gold,  advances  in  a  cubical 
chariot,  surmounted  by  an  azure,  star-decked  canopy 
supported  by  four  columns. 

This  symbol  reproduces  the  1st  and  21st  arcana  in 
another  order  of  ideas.  The  four  columns  represent  the 
four  animals  of  the  21st  arcanum,  and  the  four  symbols 
of  the  1st  arcanum,  symbols  of  the  quaternary  in  all  its 
acceptations. 

The  Conqueror,  who  occupies  the  centre  of  the  four 
elements,  is  the  man  who  has  vanquished  and  directed  the 
elementary  forces  :  this  victory  is  confirmed  by  the  cubical 


136  THE   TAROT. 

form  of  the  chariot,  and  by  the  Pentagrams,  which  crown 
the  Initiate. 

The  Conqueror  has  three  right  angles  upon  his  cuirass, 
and  he  bears  upon  his  shoulders  the  Urim  and  Thummim 
of  the  sovereign  sacrificant,  represented  by  the  two  crescents 
of  the  moon  on  the  right  and  left  ;  in  his  hand  is  a  sceptre 
surmounted  by  a  globe,  a  square,  and  a  triangle.  Upon 
the  square,  which  forms  the  front  of  the  chariot,  we  see 
the  Indian  lingam,  surmounted  by  the  flying  sphere  of 
Egypt. 

Two  sphinxes,  one  white,  the  other  black,  are  harnessed 
to  the  chariot. 

This  symbol  represents  the  sacred  septenary  in  all  its 
manifestations.  The  word  Yod-he-vau-he  is  portrayed 
upon  the  front  of  the  chariot  by  the  winged  globe,  to 
indicate  that  the  septenary  gives  the  key  to  the  whole 
Tarot.  The  two  sphinxes  correspond  to  the  two  prin- 
ciples, active  and  passive.  The  Conqueror  corresponds 
especially  with  the  Sword  and  the  Vau  of  the  sacred 
name. 

The  7th  card  of  the  Tarot  shows  the  influence  of  the 
creation  in  the  preservation  of  the  Divine  in  the  Human. 
It  represents  the  Yod  or  the  God  of  the  2nd  septenary. 

The  God  of  the  2nd  septenary. 

Man  performing  the  function  or  God  the  Creator. 

The  Father. 
The  laic  of  the  2nd  septenary. 

Kealization. 
(Keflex  of  the  Power.) 
The  Man  of  the  2nd  septenary. 
Nature  performing  the  function  of  Adam. 

The  Astral  Light. 


SECOND   SEPTENARY. 

7.    ï 
The  Chariot. 


137 


AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

Primitive     ] 

XT-        i     -L-    r  Arrow 
Hieroglyphic  J 

Man  performing  the  function  of 
God  the  creator 

Kabbalah           Hod 

THE  FATHER 

Astronomy         The  Twins 

The  Realizer 

Month                May 

HebreAV  letter    Zain  (simple) 

Law 

THE  REALIZATION 

OBSERVATIONS 

Nature  performing  the  function 

- 

of  Adam 

THE  ASTRAL  LIGHT 

The  passage  from  one  world  to  the  other  is  scarcely 
performed,  when  we  see  the  same  law  in  action  that  we 
found  in  the  1st  septenary.  The  second  term  of  this 
series  will  be  the  reflection  of  the  first,  just  as  the  second 
term  of  the  first  series  also  reflected  the  first.  However, 
since  this  2nd  septenary  is  the  central  one,  we  shall  find 
as  the  foundation  of  all  its  constituent  arcana,  the  idea  of 
mediation  or  equilibrium.  This  is  shown  by  the  eighth 
card. 


138 


THE  TAROT. 


JUSTICE. 


JUSTICE. 


8.    n 
8th  Hebrew  letter  (Heth). 

ORIGIN    OF    THE    SYMBOLISM    OF    THE  EIGHTH    CARD    OF    THE  TAROT. 

Hieroglyphically  the  Heth  expresses  a  field.  From  it 
springs  the  idea  of  anything  that  requires  labour,  trouble, 
an  effort. 

Continued  effort  results  in  the  establishment  of  an 
equilibrium,  between  the  destruction  of  the  works  of  man 
accomplished  by  nature,  when  left  to  herself,  and  the 
preservation  of  this  work.  Hence  the  idea  of  balancing 
power,  and  consequently  of  Justice  attributed  to  this 
letter.1 

1  This  letter,  an  intermediary  between  Î1  (He)  and  3  (Kaph),  the 
one  designating  life,  absolute  existence,  the  other  the  relative  life, 
assimilated  existence,  is  the  sign  of  elementary  existence  :  it  is  the 
image  of  a  kind  of  equilibrium,  and  attaches  itself  to  ideas  of  effort, 
of  labour,  and  of  normal  and  legislative  action. — Fabre  d'Olivet. 


SECOND  SEPTENARY.  139 

Astronomically  the  Heth    corresponds  to  the   sign   of 
Cancer  in  the  zodiac. 


THE   EIGHTH  CARD   OF   THE   TAROT. 

Justice. 

The  ideas  expressed  by  this  symbol  are  of  Equilibrium 
in  all  its  forms. 

A  woman  seen  full  face,  and  wearing  an  iron  coronet,  is 
seated  upon  a  throne.  She  is  placed  between  the  two 
columns  of  the  temple.  The  solar  cross  is  traced  upon 
her  breast. 

Here  we  find  the  continuation  of  the  symbolism  of  the 
2nd  and  5th  arcana.  The  seated  woman  occupies  the 
centre  between  the  columns,  the  first  idea  of  the  equilibrium 
between  Good  and  Evil. 

She  holds  a  sword,  point  upwards,  in  her  right  hand, 
and  a  balance  in  her  left. 

Occult  science  (2),  at  first  theoretical,  has  become  practical 
(5),  and  has  been  taught  verbally.  Now  it  appears  in  all 
the  pitilessness  of  consequences,  terrible  for  the  false  Magi 
the  Sword),  but  just  toward  the  true  Initiates  (Balance). 
The  signification  of  this  arcanum  is  central  between  the 
5th  (p  He)  and  the  11th  (^  Kaph)  arcana. 

This  card  is  the  complement  of  the  eleventh,  as  the 
fifth  was  of  the  second.  In  the  1st  septenary  all  the 
cards  which,  by  addition,  formed  the  number  7,  completed 
each  other;  in  the  2nd  septenary  all  the  cards  which, 
added  together,  form  19,  act  in  the  same  way. 


140 


THE   TAROT. 


The  Chariot 


8 
Justice 

9 

The  Hermit 


is  completed  by 

7  +  12  =  19 
19  =  10=    1 

is  completed  by 

8  +  11  =  19 

is  completed  by 

9  +  10  =  19 


12 

The  Hanged  Man 


11 


Strength 


10 

The  Wheel  of  Fortune 


The  eighth  card  of  the  Tarot  represents  the  conception 
in  preservative  of  the  second  card.  It  synthetizes  in  itself 
the  meaning  of  the  second  and  of  the  fifth  card  of  the 
Tarot,  and  represents  the  reflex  of  the  seventh.  It 
signifies — 

1.  In  the  Divine.  God  the  Son  of  the  2nd  septenary. 
The  woman  fulfilling  the  functions  of  God  the  Son. 

The  Mother. 

Keflex  of   the  Father.     Preserver  of  God  the   Son   in 
Humanity. 

2.  Passive  law  of  the  2nd  septenary. 

Justice. 

Keflex  of  Realization  and  Authority. 

3.  The  woman  of  the  2nd  septenary.  Nature  fulfilling 
the  function  of  Eve. 

Elementary  Existence. 

Reflex  of  the  Astral   Li^ht.      Preservation  '  of  datura 

o 

naturata  in  the  World. 


SECOND  SEPTENARY. 


141 


8.    n 
Justice. 


AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

Primitive    1  A  FieM 
Hieroglyphic  J 

Kabbalah           Nizah 

Astronomy         Cancer 

The  woman  fulfilling  the 
functions  of  God  the  Son 

THE   MOTHER 

Month               June 
Hebrew  letter    Heth  (simple) 

Law 
JUSTICE 

OBSERVATIONS 

Nature  performing  the 
function  of  Eve 

ELEMENTARY 
EXISTENCE 

The  elementary  existence  is  the  means  by  which  the 
astral  vivifying  fluid  or  astral  light  (7)  manifests  itself 
through  the  ether  or  astral  matter  (9).  This  is 
demonstrated  by  the  following  arcanum. 


142 


THE  TAROT. 


THE    HERMIT. 


THE   HERMIT. 


9.     & 
9th  Hebrew  letter  (Teth). 

ORIGIN    OF    THE    SYMBOLISM    OF    THE   NINTH    CARD    OF    THE   TAROT. 

Hieroglyphically  the  Teth  represents  a  roof,  and  suggests 
the  idea  of  a  place  of  safety,  a  protection.  All  the  ideas 
arising  from  this  letter  are  derived  from  the  alliance 
of  safety  and  protection  given  by  wisdom. 

Astronomically  the  Teth  corresponds  with  the  zodiacal 
sign  of  the  Lion. 

NINTH   CARD   OF   THE  TAROT. 

The  Hermit. 
The  following  ideas  are  connected  with  this  card — 

1.  Protection. 

2.  Wisdom,  Circumspection. 


SECOND   SEPTENAKY.  143 

An  old  man  walking  supported  by  a  stick.  He  carries 
before  him  a  lighted  lamp,  half  hidden  by  the  great 
mantle  which  envelopes  him. 

This  symbol  is  midway  between  the  sixth  and  the 
twelfth. 

Protection  is  indicated  by  the  mantle  which  envelops 
the  old  man. 

Wisdom  by  the  half-hidden  lamp. 

The  stick  indicates  that  the  Sage  is  always  armed  to 
fight  against  Injustice  or  Error. 

By  comparing  this  card  with  two  others,  the  sixth  and 
the  twelfth,  we  shall  see  that  the  beardless  young  man  in 
the  former  (6th)  has  chosen  the  right  path.  Experience  won 
in  the  labour  of  life  has  rendered  him  a  prudent  old  man, 
and  prudence  united  to  wisdom  will  safely  lead  him  to  the 
higher  level,  which  he  is  anxious  to  attain  (12th  card). 
The  arrow  shot  by  the  genius  in  the  sixth  arcanum  has 
become  his  support,  and  the  effulgent  aureole  which  sur- 
rounded the  genius  is  now  imprisoned  in  the  lamp  which 
guides  the  Initiate.  This  is  the  result  of  his  prolonged 
efforts. 

The  ninth  card  of  the  Tarot  represents  the  third  con- 
ceived as  preserver  and  recipient.  It  also  balances  the 
seventh  and  the  eighth. 

1.  Humanity  fulfilling  the  function  of  God  the  Holy 
Spirit. 

The  human  creative  force. 

Human  Love. 

The  preserving  power  of  Humanity.  The  equilibrium 
of  the  Father  and  the  Mother. 

2.  Equilibrium  of  Realization  and  Justice. 


144  THE   TAEOT. 

Pkudence. 

(Silence.) 

3.  Nature    accomplishing    the    function    of    humanity. 
Equilibrium  of  the  Astral  Light  and  Elementary  Existence. 

The  Natural  Preserving  Force. 
The  Astral  Fluid. 

9.     & 
The  Hermit. 


AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

Primitive     1    A  -p,     £ 
fAKoof 
Hieroglyphic  J 

Kabbalah          Iesod 

Astronomy        The  Lion 

Humanity  accomplishing  the 

functions  of  God  the  Holy 

Spirit 

HUMAN   LOVE 

Month                July 
Hebrew  letter    Teth  (simple) 

PKUDENCE 

Silence 

OBSERVATIONS 

The  natural  Preserving  Force 
THE   ASTEAL   FLUID 

SECOND   SEPTENARY. 


145 


The  astral  fluid  therefore  represents  the  universal 
preservation  of  the  active  forces  in  nature.  Here  ends 
the  first  ternary  of  the  septenary  of  Preservation.  We 
shall  now  see  the  reflections  of  all  these  terms  in  the 
following  ternary. 


THE  WHEEL  OF  FORTUNE. 


THE  WHEEL  OF  FORTUNE. 


10.    > 
10th  Hebrew  letter  (Yod). 

ORIGIN    OP    THE    SYMBOLISM    OF    THE   TENTH    CARD   OF    THE  TAROT. 

The  hieroglyphic  meaning  of  the  Yod  is  the  finger  of 
man  ;  the  forefinger  extended  as  a  sign  of  command.  This 
letter  has  therefore  become  the  image  of  potential  mani- 
festation, of  spiritual  duration  ;  lastly  of  the  eternity  of 
time,  with  all  the  ideas  relating  to  it.1 

1  See  the  study  of  the  word  Yod-he-vau-he. 

L 


146 


THE  TAROT. 


The  Yod  is  a  simple  letter  ;  astronomically  it  corresponds 


with  the  zodiacal  sign  of  the  Virgin. 


TENTH  CARD  OF  THE  TAROT. 

The  Wheel  of  Fortune. 

Two  principal  ideas  are  expressed  by  this  symbol — 

1.  The  idea  of  Command,  of  Supremacy. 

2.  The  idea  of  the  duration,  of  the  eternal  action  of  time. 

The  wheel  of  fortune  suspended  upon  its  axis.  To  the 
right  Amthis,  the  genius  of  good  ascending  ;  to  the  left 
Typhon,  the  genius  of  evil  descending,  the  Sphinx  is 
balanced  upon  the  centre  of  the  wheel,  holding  à  sword 
in  its  lion  claws. 

The  first  idea  is  expressed  by  the  ternary,  Anubis  or 
positive,  Typhon  or  negative,  the  balanced  Sphinx  the 
ruler. 

The  second  idea  is  expressed  by  the  wheel,  a  line  without 
beginning  or  end,  the  symbol  of  eternity. 

The  10th  arcanum  is  midway  between  the  7th  and  13th 
arcana. 


7  +  13  =  20 


20 

-  =  10. 


It  expresses  the  incessant  equilibrium,  which  modifies 
the  creative  realizations  of  the  septenary  by  the  necessary 
destruction  by  Death  (arcanum  13).  The  three  arcana,  7, 
10,  13,  correspond  exactly  with  the  Hindu  trinity  or 
Trimurti. 

Brahma    =    Creator        =    Arcanum     7. 

Siva         =    Destroyer    =    Arcanum  13. 

Vishnu    =    Preserver    =    Arcanum  10. 


SECOND   SEPTENARY. 


14: 


It  represents  the  course  of  things  according  to  the 
ternary  law,  which  directs  all  the  divine  manifestations. 

The  tenth  card  of  the  Tarot  commences  the  negative 
portion  of  the  2nd  septenary,  and  expresses  the  notion 
of  the  septenary  considered  in  its  reflections. 

It  will  therefore  represent — 

1.  Reflex  of  will  (see  4th  arcanum). 

Necessity. 
The  Karma  of  the  Hindus. 

2.  Reflex  of  power  and  of  realization. 

Magic  Powek. 
Fortune. 

(To  will.) 

3.  Reflex  of  the  universal  soul. 

Force  Potential  in  its  Manifestation. 

10.    <■ 
The  Wheel  of  Fortune. 


AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

Primitive     i 
TT.        ,     ,  .    y  The  Forefinger 
Hieroglyphic  J                       ° 

Kabbalah          Malchut 

NECESSITY 
The  Karma  of  the  Hindus 

Astronomy        The  Virgin 
Month               August 
Hebrew  letter   Yod  (simple) 

MAGIC  POWER 
Fortune 
To  Will 

OBSERVATIONS 

Reflection  of  the  universal  soul 

FORCE  POTENTIAL 
IN  ITS  MANIFESTATION 

148 


THE   TAEOT. 


The  absolute  creative  force  has  varied  successively  in 
the  universal  vivifying  Fluid  (4),  and  the  astral  Light  (7)  ; 
now  it  is  represented  by  force  potential  in  its  manifesta- 
tion.     We   shall    see    this    force    fully    displayed    in    the 


following  arcanum. 


STEENGTH. 


STRENGTH. 


11.    D 
11th  Hebrew  letter  (Kaph). 

ORIGIN  OF  THE  SYMBOLISM  OF  THE  ELEVENTH  CARD  OF  THE  TAROT. 

The  hieroglyphic  meaning  of  the  Kaph  is  the  hand  of 
man,  half  closed  and  in  the  act  of  prehension,  like  the 
Gimel.  But  the  Kaph  is  reinforcement  of  the  Gimel,  so 
that  we  might  say  that  it  designates  the  hand  of  man  in 
the  act  of  grasping  strongly.  Ideas  of  strength  are  therefore 
applied  to  this  letter. 


SECOND   SEPTENARY.  149 

The  number  11,  the  first  after  the  decade,  gives  a 
different  value  to  the  Kaph,  which  designates  a  reflected 
transitory  life,  a  kind  of  mould,  which  receives  and  restores 
every  variety  of  form. 

It  is  derived  from  the  letter  Heth,  n  (8),  which  is  itself 
derived  from  the  sign  of  absolute  life,  He  n  (5).  Thus, 
allied  on  one  side  to  the  sign  of  elementary  life  (see  the 
8th  arcanum),  it  joins  to  the  signification  of  the  letter 
Heth  (n)  that  of  the  organic  sign  D  (Gimel)  (3rd  arcanum), 
of  which  too  it  is  merely  a  reinforcement. 

The  Kaph  is  a  double  letter,  corresponding  astronomically 
with  March  and  Tuesday. 


THE  ELEVENTH  CARD  OF  THE  TAROT. 

Strength. 

Only  two  ideas  are  expressed  by  this  arcanum — 

1.  The  idea  of  strength. 

2.  The  idea  of  vitality. 

A  young  girl  calmly  closing  a  lion's  mouth  without  any 

visible  effort. 

(First  idea.) 

This  young  girl  wears  the  vital  sign  oo   upon  her  head. 

(Second  idea.) 

The  11th  arcanum  is  midway  between  the  5th  and  14th 
arcana.  In  it  we  find  the  symbolism  of  the  8th  arcanum 
transformed  to  the  physical  plane.  It  is,  in  fact,  the  image 
of  the  power  given  by  the  sacred  science  (2nd  arcanum) 
when  justly  applied  (8). 

The  eleventh  card  of  the  Tarot  shows  us  all  the  negative 
or  reflective  significations  of  the  fifth,  that  is  to  say — 


150 


THE   TAROT. 


1.  Reflex  of  the  Intelligence  (5). 

Liberty. 

2.  Reflex  of  Authority,  of  Faith. 

Courage. 
(To  dare.) 

3.  Reflex  of  the  Universal  Life.     Manifestation  of  the 
strength  of  the  preceding  arcanum. 

Reflected  and  Transitory  Life. 


11.  3 

Strength. 


AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

Primitive     (  The  Hand  in  the 
Hieroglyphic  (    act  of  grasping 

Reflex  of  the  Intelligence 

Astronomy         Mars   o 

LIBERTY 

Day                    Tuesday 

Hebrew  letter   Kaph  (double) 

Reflex  of  Authority,  of  Faith 

COURAGE 

(rTo  dare) 

OBSERVATIONS 

Keiiex  oi  Universal  Lire 

Reflex  and  Transitory  Life 

SECOND   SEPTENARY. 


151 


The  strength,  already  potential  in  its  manifestations,  has 
shown  its  full  force  in  the  11th  arcanum  :  it  will  balance 
itself  in  the  following  arcanum. 


XM        S    1 


LE  PENDU 


THE    HANGED    MAN. 


THE   HANGED    MAN. 


12.  b 
12th  Hebrew  letter  (Lamed). 

ORIGIN  OF  THE  SYMBOLISM  OF  THE  TWELFTH  CARD    OF    THE    TAROT. 

Hieroglyphicaliy  the  Lamed  designates  the  arm,  and 
therefore  it  is  connected  with  anything  that  stretches,  that 
raises,  that  unfolds  like  the  arm,  and  has  become  the  sign 
of  expansive  movement.  It  is  applied  to  all  ideas  of  exten- 
sion, of  occupation,  of  possession.  As  a  last  sign,  it  is  the 
image  of  the  power  derived  from  elevation. 

Divine   expansion   in    humanity   is    produced   by   the 


152  THE   TAROT. 

prophets  and  revelation,  and  this  inspires  the  idea  of  the 
revealed  lato.  But  the  revelation  of  the  law  involves 
punishment  for  him  who  violates  it,  or  elevation  for 
him  who  understands  it  ;  and  here  we  find  the  ideas  of 
punishment,  of  violent  death,  voluntary  or  involuntary. 

The  Lamed,  a  simple  letter,  astronomically  corresponds 
with  the  zodiacal  sign  of  the  Balance. 


TWELFTH   CARD    OF   THE   TAROT. 

The  Hanged  Man. 

A  man  hanging  by  one  foot  to  a  gibbet,  resting  upon 
two  trees,  each  bearing  six  branches,  which  have  been 
cut  off. 

The  man's  hands  are  tied  behind  his  back,  and  the  fold 
of  his  arms  forms  the  base  of  a  reversed  triangle,  of  which 
his  head  forms  the  point.  His  eyes  are  open  and  his  fair 
hair  floats  upon  the  wind.  His  right  leg  crosses  his  left 
and  so  forms  a  cross. 

This  young  man  is  again  the  Juggler  whose  transform- 
ations we  have  already  followed  in  the  1st,  6th,  and  7th 
arcana. 

Like  the  sun  placed  in  the  midst  of  the  signs  of  the 
Zodiac  (six  on  each  side,  the  lopped  branches),  our  young- 
hero  is  again  suspended  between  two  decisions,  from  which 
will  spring,  no  longer  his  physical  future,  as  in  the  6th 
arcanum,  but  his  spiritual  future. 

The  12th  arcanum  fills  the  centre  between  the  6th 
arcanum  (Wisdom)  and  the  15th  (Fatality).  These  arcana 
represent  the  two  women  of  the  6th  arcanum,  regarded  in 
the  spiritual  sense. 

This   Hanged  Man  serves  for  an  example  to  the   pre- 


SECOND   SEPTENARY.  153 

sumptuous,  and  his  position  indicates  discipline,  the 
absolute  submission  which  the  human  owes  to  the 
Divine. 

Considered  alchemically,   the  Hanged   Man  shows  the 
sign  of  personality. 


In  the  hermetic  grade  of  the  Rosy-Cross  (18th  degree 
of  the  Freemasonry  of  Scotland)  one  of  the  signs  of  recog- 
nition consists  in  crossing  the  legs  like  those  of  the  Hanged 
Man.  It  is  needless  to  say  that  the  origin  and  meaning 
of  this  sign  is  quite  unknown  to  the  Freemasons. 

The  twelfth  card  of  the  Tarot  represents  Equilibrist 
Power.  It  neutralizes  the  oppositions  of  the  tenth  and 
eleventh  cards. 

1.  Equilibrium  of  Necessity  and  Liberty — 

Charity. — Grace. 
(Preserving  power  of  Love.) 

2.  Equilibrium  of  Power  and  Courage.  Reflex  of 
Prudence — 

Acquired  Experience. 

(Knowledge.) 

3.  Equilibrium  of  the  potential  Manifestation  (10),  and 
of  reflected  Life  (11).     Reflex  of  the  astral  Fluid. 

Equilibrist  Force. 


154 


THE   TAROT. 

12.  b 

The  Hanged  Man. 


AFFINITIES 


SIGNIFICATIONS 


Primitive     1    The  Arm   out- 
Hieroglyphic  J  stretched 

Astronomy        The  Balance 

Month  September 

Hebrew  letter    Lamed  (Simple) 


OBSERVATIONS. 


CHARITY 

Grace 


ACQUIRED  EXPERIENCE 

(Knowledge) 


EQUILIBRIST  FORCE 


Modifying  force  is  the  last  term  of  the  2nd  septenary. 
By  it  the  Astral  will  realize  itself  to  pass  into  the  physical, 
from  the  world  of  preservation  and  reception  (2nd  sep- 
tenary) into  the  world  of  transformation  (3rd  septenary). 


SECOND   SEPTENARY 


155 


Constitution  of  Man. 


o^ 


r-l     S, 

ET 

< 

w 

s 

•;=  S 

V  ^ 

Eh 

H 

N^ 

m 

|@£ 

"S, 

v          CT> 

•*i 

^^w 

.£           t-H 

"So 

«3 

ts 

N5 

(l> 

Potential 
ifestation 

AN-UN 

<< 

** 

.-'v 

C      CO 

Force 
Man 

THE   M 

r& 

>,  _ 

S      >, 

c*   u 

a>*g 

+=  ^ 

p 
o 

h^  -2  '72 

o 

&$z; 

« 

>"§  - 

'  1  S 

fej 

Kl 

R's' 

m 

v8   *> 

Eh 

&J 

^ 

fv. 

CHAPTER   XII. 

THIRD   SEPTENARY.      ARCANA    13 — 19. 

Key  of  the  3rd  Septenary — The  Mem  and  Death — The  Nun  and 
Temperance — The  Samech  and  the  Devil — The  Ayin  and  the 
Lightning-struck  Tower — The  Tzaddi  and  the  Moon. 

Summary  of  the  3rd  Septenary — Constitution  of  the  Universe. 

Key  to  the  Third  Septenary. 

ARRANGEMENT    OF    THE    FIGURES     FOR    STUDY. 


Devil     15 


Death  Lightning-struck  Tower 

13  16 


19 

The  Sun 


\    18    The  Moon 


14 

Temperance 


17 

Star 


THIRD  SEPTENARY. 


157 


CHARACTER    OF  THE    FIGURES. 

Influence  of  the  2nd  Septenary 

in  the  3rd  Reflex  of  13 

13  16 


Equilibrium    ,  ^ 
of  13  and  14    l 


19 
Equilibrium 
of  15  and  18 

return 

to  the  world  of 

principles 


Reflex  of  15 
\  18     Equili- 
brium of 
16  and  17 


14 
Reflex  of  13 


17 

Reflex  of  14 


The  first  septenary  has  shown  us  the  World  of  Principles, 
or  of  the  Creation. 

The  second  has  developed  the  World  of  Laws,  or  of 
Preservation. 

The  third  will  now  show  us  the  World  of  Facts,  or  of 
Transformation.  We  shall  now  see  how  the  circulation  of 
the  forces  of  the  two  first  septenaries  is  established.  t 


158 


THE  TAROT. 


DEATH. 


13.    a 

13th  Hebrew  letter  (Mem). 

ORIGIN  OF  THE  SYMBOLISM  OF  THE  THIRTEENTH  CARD  OF 

THE  TAROT. 

The  hieroglyphic  meaning  of  the  Mem  is  a  woman,  the 
companion  of  man,  it  therefore  gives  rise  to  ideas  of  fertility 
and  formation.  It  is  pre-eminently  the  maternal  and 
female,  the  local  and  plastic  sign,  the  image  of  external  and 
passive  action.  Employed  at  the  end  of  words,  this  letter 
becomes  a  collective  sign  n  (final  Mem).  In  this  case  it 
develops  the  being  in  unlimited  space. 

Creation  necessitates  equal  destruction  in  a  contrary 
sense,  and  therefore  the  Mem  designates  all  the  regener- 
ations  that   have  sprung  from  previous   destruction,  all 


THIRD  SEPTENARY. 


159 


transformations,  and  consequently  death,  regarded  as  the 
passage  from  one  world  to  the  other. 

The  Mem  is  one  of  the  three  Mother  letters. 


THIRTEENTH  CARD  OF  THE  TAROT. 

Death,  or  the  Skeleton  Mower. 

The  ideas  expressed  by  this  arcanum  are  those  of 
destruction  preceding  or  following  regeneration. 

A  skeleton  mows  down  heads  in  a  field,  from  which 
hands  and  feet  spring  up  on  all  sides,  as  the  scythe 
pursues  its  work. 

The  works  of  the  head  (conception)  become  immortal  as 
soon  as  they  are  realized  (heads  and  feet). 

The  13th  arcanum  is  explained  by  the  10th  (Fortune) 
and  by  the  16th  (Destruction),  between  which  it  stands. 

26 


10  +  16  =  26 


=  13. 


13  is  therefore  the  centre  between  the  Yod  (Principle  of 
the  creation)  and  the  Ayin  (16),  Principle  of  destruction. 

The  13th  arcanum  is  completed  by  the  18th,  its  com- 
plementary, as  the  fifth  was  of  the  second,  and  the  twelfth 
of  the  seventh.     (See  the  8th  and  the  5th  arcana.) 


13 

18 

Death 

is  completed  by 

The  Moon 

13  +  18  =  31 

31=    4=10  =  1 

14 

17 

Temperance 

is  completed  by 
14  +  17  =  31 

The  Stars 

15 

16 

The  Devil 

is  completed  by 
15  +  16  =  31 

Destruction 

160 


THE  TAROT. 


The  thirteenth  card  of  the  Tarot  is  placed  between  the 
invisible  and  the  visible  worlds.  It  is  the  universal  link 
in  nature,  the  means  by  which  all  the  influences  react 
from  one  world  to  the  other.     It  signifies — 

1.  God  the  transformer — 

The  Universal  Transforming  Principle. 
Destructive  and  creative. 

2.  The  negative  of  realization — 

Death. 

3.  The  Astral  light  accomplishing  the  function  of  the 
Creator — 

The  Universal  Plastic  Force. 

(Balancing  death  and  the  transforming  force.) 


13.     Q 

Death. 


AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

Primitive     »     The 

Hieroglyphic  J 

Hebrew  letter      Mem    (one    of 
the  3  mothers) 

THE    UNIVERSAL 

TRANSFORMING 

PRINCIPLE 

Destroyer  and  Creator 

DEATH 

OBSERVATIONS 

THE    UNIVERSAL 

PLASTIC   FORCE 

THIRD  SEPTENARY. 


1G1 


TEMPERANCE. 


TEMPERANCE. 


14.     3 
14th  Hebrew  letter  (Nun). 

ORIGIN  OF  THE  SYMBOLISM  OF  THE  FOURTEENTH  CARD  OF 

THE  TAROT. 

The  hieroglyphic  sense  of  the  Nun  is  the  offspring  of 
the  female  ;  a  son,  a  fruit  of  any  kind,  all  things  produced. 
This  letter  has  therefore  become  the  image  of  the  being 
produced  or  reflected,  the  sign  of  individual  and  corporeal 
existence. 

As  a  final  it  is  the  sign  of  augmentation  )  (Nun  as  a 
final),  and  gives  to  the  word  which  receives  it  all  the 
individual  extension  of  which  the  thing  expressed  is 
susceptible. 

Astronomically  the  Nun  corresponds  with  the  zodiacal 
sign  of  the  Scorpion. 

M 


162  THE   TAROT. 

In  short  the  Nun  expresses  the  production  of  any  com- 
bination, the  result  of  the  action  of  the  ascending  or 
creative  forces,  and  of  the  descending  or  destructive  forces 
figured  bv  the  star  of  Solomon. 


FOURTEENTH  CARD  OF  THE  TAROT. 

Temperance. 

The  following  ideas  are  expressed  by  this  symbol — 

1.  Combination  of  different  fluids. 

2.  Individualization  of  existence. 

The  genius  of  the  Sun  pours  the  fluid  of  Life  from  a 
golden  vase  into  a  silver  one. 

(First  idea.) 

This  essence  passes  from  one  vase  to  the  other  without 
one  drop  being  spilt. 

(Second  idea.) 

The  fourteenth  card  represents  the  young  girl  whom 
we  have  already  seen  in  the  11th  arcanum,  and  whom  we 
shall  see  açain  in  the  17th. 

The  vital  current  placed  upon  her  head  in  the  11th 
arcanum  here  passes  from  one  vase  into  another,  but  will 
spread  further  in  the  17th  arcanum. 

The  fourteenth  card  of  the  Tarot  shows  us  the  fluid, 
hitherto  carefully  preserved,  now  freely  circulated  in 
nature. 

1.  Combination  of  active  and  passive  fluids.  Entry  of 
Spirit  into  Matter,  and  reaction  of  Matter  upon  the  Spirit  — 

Involution. 


THIRD   SEPTENARY. 


163 


2.  Reflex  of  Justice  in  the  material  world — 

Temperance. 

3.  Fixation  of  reflex  Life.     Incarnation  of  Life 

Individual  and  Corporeal  Life. 


14.    3 

Temperance. 


AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

Primitive      1    A  Fruit 

Hieroglyphic     J 

Astronomy             The  Scorpion 

INVOLUTION 

(The  Spirit  descends  towards 
Matter) 

Month                     October 
Hebrew  letter        Nun  (simple) 

TEMPERANCE 

OBSERVATIONS 

INDIVIDUAL   AND 
CORPOREAL   LIEE 

164 


THE   TAROT. 


THE   DEVIL. 


THE   DEVIL. 


15.      D 

15th  Hebrew  letter  (Samech). 

ORIGIN    OF    THE    SYMBOLISM    OP    THE    FIFTEENTH    CARD    OF    J 

THE    TAROT. 

The  Samedi  expresses  the  same  hieroglyphic  sign  as  the 
Zain  (7th  arcanum),  that  is  to  say,  an  arrow  ;  a  weapon  of 
any  kind  ;  but  to  this  idea  is  here  added  that  of  the  arrow 
making  a  circular  movement,  of  any  circle  denning  and 
delimiting  a  circumscription. 

This  idea  of  an  impassable  circle  has  given  birth  to  that 
of  Destiny,  of  Fatality,  circumscribing  the  limits  of  the 
circle  in  which  the  human  will  can  act  freely  ;  so  that  the 
Serpent  forming  a  circle  of  his  own  body,  biting  his  own 
tail,  has  always  been  the  symbol  of  this  Fatality,  of  this 
Destiny,  encircling  the  world  in  its  embrace.     It  is  the 


THIRD  SEPTENARY.  165 

image  of  the  year  (the  ring),  and  of  the  fatal  and  settled 
revolutions  of  time. 

As  a  letter,  the  Samedi  is  the  link  (Zain)  reinforced  and 
turned  back  upon  itself.  As  a  simple  letter,  it  corresponds 
with  the  zodiacal  sign  of  Sagittarius. 


FIFTEENTH    CARD   OF   THE   TAROT. 

The  Devil 

In  every  cosmogony  the  Devil  represents  the  mysterious 
astral  force,  the  origin  of  which  is  revealed  to  us  by  the 
hieroglyphic  of  Samech. 

But  a  little  attentive  consideration  of  the  symbol  will 
show  us  that  it  contains  several  of  the  details  which  we 
have  already  seen  in  other  figures  of  the  Tarot,  but  under 
a  different  aspect. 

If  we  place  the  Juggler  by  the  side  of  the  Devil  we 
shall  see  that  the  arms  of  the  two  personages  are  using 
the  same  gesture,  but  in  an  inverse  sense.  The  Juggler 
points  his  right  hand  towards  the  Universe,  his  left  hand 
towards  God  ;  on  the  other  hand  the  Devil  raises  his  right 
hand  into  the  air,  whilst  his  left  points  to  the  earth. 
Instead  of  the  magic  initiating  wand  of  the  Juggler,  the 
Demon  holds  the  lighted  torch,  the  symbol  of  black  magic 
and  of  Destruction. 

By  the  side  of  the  Devil,  and  balanced  by  him,  are  two 
personages  reproducing  the  same  symbolism  that  we  find 
in  the  two  women  of  the  Lovers  (6),  and  in  the  two 
supports  of  the  gibbet  of  the  Hanged  Man  (12). 

The  universal  vivifying  force  represented  by  the  3rd 
arcanum  has  here  become  the  universal  destroying  force. 
The  sceptre  of  Venus-Urania  has  become  the   Demon's 


166  THE   TAROT. 

torch,  the  Angel's  wings  have  changed  into  the  hideous 
pinions  of  the   God   of  Evil. 

The  3rd  arcanum  symbolizes  the  Ho>y  Spirit,  or  the 
Providence  of  Fabre  d'Olivet. 

The  15th  arcanum  symbolizes  the  False  Spirit,  or  the 
Destiny  of  Fabre  d'Olivet. 

2 

The  9th  arcanum,  which  fills  the  centre  between  the 
two  figures,  symbolizes  Prudence,  or  the  Human  Will  of 
Fabre  d'Olivet. 

The  Devil  has  materialized  upon  his  head  the  universal 
fluid  which  surrounded  the  head  of  the  Juggler;  this  is 
indicated  by  the  two  six-pointed  horns  which  adorn  him. 

He  stands  upon  a  cube  placed  upon  a  sphere,  to  indicate 
the  domination  of  Matter  (the  cube)  over  the  Spirit  (the 
Sphere). 

The  fifteenth  card  of  the  Tarot  derives  its  signification 
from  its  own  symbolism — 

1.  Destiny  (chance). 

2.  Fatality,  the  result  of  the  fall  of  Adam-Eve. 

3.  The  astral  fluid,  which  individualizes. 

Nahash,  the  Dragon  of  the  Threshold. 


THIRD  SEPTENARY. 


1G7 


15.     D 

The  Devil, 


AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

Primitive        )     gerppnt 
Hieroglyphic     ) 

Astronomy              Sagittarius 

DESTINY 

Chance 

Month                     November 

Hebrew  letter         Samech 

(simple) 

FATALITY 

Result  of  the  fall  of 
Adam-Eve 

OBSERVATIONS 

NAHASH 

The  Dragon  of  the  Threshold 

168 


THE  TAROT 


jQ  LE  FEU  DU  CIEL     V 


THE   FIRE   OF    HEAVEN. 

(Lightning.  ) 


THE   LIGHTNING-STRUCK   TOWER. 


16.        V 

16th  Hebrew  letter  (Ayin). 

ORIGIN    OF    THE    SYMBOLISM    OF   THE    SIXTEENTH    CARD    OF 

THE    TAROT. 

The  Ayin  expresses  the  same  hieroglyphic  as  the*  Va  u 
(6),  but  materialized.  It  is  the  sign  of  Material  sense. 
Again  degenerated,  it  expresses  all  that  is  crooked,  false, 
perverse,  and  bad. 

Astronomically  this  letter  corresponds  with  the  zodiacal 
sign  of  Capriconms. 

SIXTEENTH   CARD   OF   THE   TAROT. 

The  Lightning-struck  Tower. 
This  card  bears  the  picture  of  a  tower,  with  its  battle- 


THIRD   SEPTENARY.  169 

ments  struck  by  lightning;  two  men,  one  crowned,  the 
other  uncrowned,  are  falling  with  the  fragments  of  broken 
masonry  ;  the  attitude  of  the  former  recalls  the  shape  of 
the  letter  Ay  in. 

This  card  contains  the  first  allusion  to  a  material  build- 
ing in  our  pack,  but  we  shall  find  the  same  symbol 
reproduced  in  the  18th  and  19th  arcana. 

Here  it  signifies  the  invisible  or  spiritual  world,  incarnated 
in  the  visible  and  material  world. 

The  16th  card  represents  the  material  fall  of  Adam. 
He  will  gradually  become  more  materialized  until  the 
18th  arcanum,  in  which  he  attains  the  maximum  of  his 
materialization. 

The  significations  of  this  figure  are  all  derived  from  this 
idea  of  fall,  of  the  materialization  of  the  spiritual   letter 

(Vau). 

1.  Materialization  of  God  the  Holy  Spirit.  (See  3rd 
arcanum.) 

Entrance  of  the  Holy  Spirit  into  the  visible  World. 
The  Holy  Spirit  acting  like  the  God  of  matter. 

Divine  Destruction. 

2.  The  materialization  of  the  Adam-Eve,  who  have  been 
spiritualized  until  now. 

Entrance  of  the  Adam-Eve  into  the  visible  World — 

The  Fall. 

3.  Materialization  of  the  Universe-principle — 

The  Visible  World. 


170 


THE   TAROT. 


16.     3? 
The  Lightning -struck  Tower 


AFFINITIES 


Primitive     1    Link  (Van) 
Hieroglyphic  J       materialized 

Astronomy  Capricornns 


Month 


December 


Hebrew  letter    Ayin  (simple) 


OBSERVATIONS 


SIGNIFICATIONS 


DIVINE   DESTEUCTION 


THE   FALL 


THE   VISIBLE   WOKLD 


THIRD  SEPTENARY. 


171 


o  yV  & 


J 


LES   ETOILES"!  V] 


THE   STARS. 


17.    a 

17th  Hebrew  letter  (Phe). 

ORIGIN  OF  THE  SYMBOLISM  OF  THE  SEVENTEENTH  CARD  OF 

THE  TAROT. 

The  Phe  expresses  the  same  hieroglyphic  meaning  as 
the  Beth  (2nd  card),  but  in  a  more  extended  sense.  For, 
whilst  the  Beth  signifies  the  mouth  of  man  as  the  orran 
of  speech,  the  Phe  represents  the  produce  of  that  organ  : 
Speech. 

It  is  the  sign  of  speech  and  of  all  connected  with  it. 
The  Word  in  acfAon  in  nature  with  all  its  consequences. 

Astronomically  this  letter  responds  to  Mercury  the  God 
of  Speech  and  of  scientific  or  commercial  diffusion,  the 
God  of  Universal  exchange  between  all  beings  and  all 
worlds. 

Phe  is  a  double  letter. 


172  THE   TAROT. 

SEVENTEENTH    CARD    OF   THE   TAROT. 

The  Star. 
The  ideas  expressed  by  this  symbol  are  those — 

1.  Of  the  expansion  of  fluids. 

2.  Of  their  eternal  renewal. 

A  nude  female  figure  pours  the  Water  of  Universal  Life 
from  two  cups. 

The  genius  of  the  Sun  (14th  arcanum)  has  now  descended 
to  earth  under  the  form  of  this  young  girl,  the  image  of 
eternal  Youth.  The  fluids,  which  she  formerly  poured  from 
one  vase  to  the  other,  she  now  throws  upon  the  ground 
(first  idea). 

This  young  girl  is  crowned  with  seven  stars  ;  in  the 
midst  of  them  shines  a  very  large  and  brilliant  one.  Near 
her  an  ibis  (or  sometimes  a  butterfly)  rests  upon  a  flower. 

Here  we  find  the  symbol  of  immortality.  The  soul  (ibis 
or  butterfly)  will  survive  the  body,  which  is  only  a  place  of 
trial  (the  ephemeral  flower).  The  courage  to  bear  these 
trials  will  come  from  above  (the  stars). 

The  fall  of  the  Divine  and  of  the  Human  into  the 
Material  has  scarcely  taken  place,  when  a  mysterious  voice 
whispers  courage  to  the  Sinner,  by  showing  him  future 
re-instatement  through  trial. 

This  card  exactly  balances  the  evil  effects  of  the 
preceding  one,  and  from  it  we  derive  the  following 
significations — < 


T> 


1.  Opposition   to   destruction.     No  destruction  is    final. 
Everything  is  eternal  and  immortal  in  God — 


THIRD  SEPTENARY 


173 


Immortality. 
Creation  of  the  human  soul. 

2.  The  fall  is  not  irreparable.     This  is  whispered  to  us 
by  the  intuitive  sentiment  we  name 

Hope. 

3.  The   Visible   Universe   contains   the    source    of    its 
Divinization  in  itself.     This  is 

The  Force  which  dispenses  the  Essence  of  Life, 

which  gives   it   the   means    of  perpetually  renewing  its 
creations  after  destruction. 


17.    a 

The  Star 


AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

-T)  •    •,•         \           Speech 
Primitive     J             l 

tt        ,     i  .    }   (the  mouth  and 
Hieroglyphic  J   v 

/       the  tongue) 
Astronomy         Mercury 
Day                    Wednesday 
Hebrew  letter   Phe  (double) 

IMMORTALITY 

HOPE 

OBSERVATIONS 

THE  FORCE  WHICH  DIS- 
PENSES THE  ESSENCE 
OF  LIFE 

THE   TAROT. 


ç  .    <   9  B 


THE   MOON. 


LA- LUNE 

THE   MOON. 


18.        2 

18th  Hebrew  letter  (Tzaddi). 

ORIGIN  OF  THE  SYMBOLISM  OF  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CARD  OF 

THE  TAROT. 

The  hieroglyphic  idea  connected  with  the  Tzaddi  is  the 
same  as  that  of  the  Teth  (9th  card)  ;  but  it  chiefly  signifies 
a  term,  an  aim,  an  end.  It  is  a  final  concluding  sign, 
relating  to  all  the  ideas  of  term,  of  secession,  division  and 
aim.1 

The  Tzaddi  is  a  simple  letter  ;  it  corresponds  with  the 
zodiacal  sign  of  Aquarius. 

1  Placed  at  the  commencement  of  a  word  it  indicates  the  move- 
ment which  leads  towards  the  end  ;  placed  at  the  end  it  marks  the 
term  itself  to  which  it  has  tended  ;  it  then  receives  this  form,  y.  It 
is  derived  from  the  letter  Samech  D  (15)  and  the  letter  Zain  T  (7),  and 
it  marks  the  secession  of  one  or  the  other. 


THIRD  SEPTENARY.  175 

THE   EIGHTEENTH   CARD    OF   THE   TAROT. 

The  Moon. 

We  have  now  traversed  the  steps  which  the  spirit 
descends  in  its  gradual  and  utter  fall  towards  the  material 
world.  All  is  now  ended  ;  the  spirit  is  completely 
materialized,  aucl  the  change  is  indicated  by  the  eighteenth 
card. 

A  meadow  feebly  lighted  by  the  moon. 

The  light,  the  symbol  of  the  soul,  no  longer  reaches  us 
directly  ;  the  material  world  is  only  lighted  by  reflection. 

The  meadow  is  bounded  by  a  tower  on  each  side. 
Drops  of  blood  are  falling  from  the  moon. 

The  material  world  is  the  last  point  which  the  spirit  can 
reach,  it  can  descend  no  lower  ;  this  is  shown  by  the 
boundaries  of  the  field.  The  drops  of  blood  represent  the 
descent  of  the  Spirit  into  Matter. 

A  path  sprinkled  with  drops  of  blood  loses  itself  in  the 
horizon.  In  the  centre  of  the  field  a  dog  and  a  wolf  are 
howling  at  the  moon,  a  crayfish  is  climbing  out  of  the 
water  between  the  two  animals. 

The  entry  of  the  Spirit  into  Matter  is  so  great  a  fall  that 
everything  conspires  to  augment  it. 

Servile  spirits  (the  dog),  savage  souls  (the  wolf),  and 
crawling  creatures  (the  crayfish)  are  all  present  watching 
the  fall  of  the  soul,  hoping  to  aid  in  its  destruction. 

1.  End  of  divine  Materialization.  Final  point  of 
involution — 

Chaos. 


176 


THE   TAROT. 


2.  End  of  the  Materialization  of  man — 

The  Material  Body  and  its  Passions. 

3.  End  of  physical  Materialization — 

Matter. 


18.     2 
The  Moon. 


AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

Primitive     1  A  Eoof 
Hieroglyphic  J 

Astronomy         Aquarius 

CHAOS 

Month                January 
Hehrew  letter   Tzaddi  (simple) 

THE  MATERIAL  BODY 
AND  ITS  PASSIONS 

OBSERVATIONS 


MATTER 


Involution,  that  is  to  say,  the  descent  of  the  Spirit  into 
Matter,  ends  with  the  3rd  septenary. 

The  three  last  cards  of  the  Tarot  will  show  us  how  all 
the  emanated  forces  gradually  return  to  their  common 
principle  by  evolution. 


THIRD   SEPTENARY. 


17: 


Constitution  of  the  Universe. 


H 


N 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

GENERAL  TRANSITION.   ARCANA  19  TO  21. 

The  Qoph  and  the  Sun — The  Resh  and    the  Judgment — The  Shin 

and  the  Fool — The  Vau  and  the  Sun. 
The  Ternary  of  Transition. 


GENERAL   TRANSITION. 


179 


THE    SUN. 


THE   SUN. 


19.     p 
19th  Hebrew  letter  (Qoph). 

ORIGIN    OF    THE    SYMBOLISM    OF    THE    NINETEENTH    CARD    OF 

THE    TAROT. 

Hieroglyphically  the  Qoph  expresses  a  sharp  weapon, 
everything  that  is  useful  to  man  ;  defends  him  ;  makes  an 
effort  for  him. 

The  Qoph  is  therefore  a  particularly  compressive,  astrin- 
gent, and  cutting  sign  ;  it  is  the  image  of  agglomerative, 
restricting  form,  and  this  gives  rise  to  the  idea  of  material 
existence. 

This  letter  represents  the  letter  3  (Kaph,  11)  entirely 
materialized,  applying  itself  to  purely  physical  objects. 
Here  is  the  progression  of  the  sign — 


180  THE   TAROT. 

H  (He,  5).  Universal  life. 

n  (Cheth,  8).      Elementary    existence.     The    efïort    of 

nature. 
3   (Kaph,  11).     Assimilated    life,    tending    to    material 

forms. 
p   (Qopb,  19).     Material  existence,  becoming  the  medium 

of  forms. 
This  is  a  simple  letter  ;  it  corresponds  with  the  sign  of 
the  Gemini. 

NINETEENTH  CARD  OF  THE  TAROT. 

The  Sun. 

Two  naked  children  are  shut  into  a  walled  enclosure. 
The  sun  sends  down  his  rays  upon  them,  and  drops  of  gold 
escape  from  him  and  fall  upon  the  ground. 

The  spirit  resumes  its  ascendancy.  It  is  no  longer  a 
reflected  light,  as  in  the  preceding  arcanum,  which  illumines 
the  figure,  bat  the  direct  creative  light  of  the  God  of  our 
Universe,  which  floods  it  with  his  rays. 

The  walls  indicate  that  we  are  still  in  the  visible  or 
material  world.  The  two  children  symbolize  the  two 
creative  fluids,  positive  and  negative,  of  the  new  creature. 

1.  Awakening  of  the  Spirit.  Transition  from .  the 
material  world  to  the  divine  world.  Nature  accomplishing 
the  functions  of  God — 

The  Elements. 

2.  The  body  of  man  is  renewed — 

Nutrition.     Digestion. 

3.  The  material  world  commences  its  ascension  towards 

God- 

The  Mineral  Kingdom. 


GENERAL   TRANSITION. 


181 


19.     p 

The  Sun. 


AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

Primitive     f  Axe,  sharp-edged 
Hieroglyphic  (          weapon 

THE   ELEMENTS 

Astronomy         The  Gemini 
Month                February 
Hebrew  letter    Qoph  (simple) 

NUTRITION 

Digestion 

OBSERVATIONS 

THE  MINERAL  KINGDOM 

182 


THE  TAKOT. 


THE  JUDGMENT. 


THE  JUDGMENT. 


20.     -i 
20th  Hebrew  letter  (Eesh). 

ORIGIN7    OF    THE    SYMBOLISM    OF    THE    TWENTIETH    CARD    OF 

THE    TAROT. 

The  hieroglyphic  meaning  of  the  Resh  is  the  head  of  man, 
and  it  is  therefore  associated  with  the  idea  of  all  that 
possesses  in  itself  an  original,  determined  movement.  It 
is  the  sign  of  motion  itself,  good  or  bad,  and  expresses  the 
renewal  of  things  with  regard  to  their  innate  power  of 
motion. 

The  Resh  is  a  double  letter,  and  responds  astronomically 
to  Saturn. 


GENERAL   TRANSITION.  183 

TWENTIETH    CARD    OF    THE   TAROT. 

The  Judy  ment. 

An  angel  with  fiery  wings,  surrounded  by  a  radiant 
halo,  sounds  the  trumpet  of  the  last  judgment.  The 
instrument  is  decorated  with  a  cross. 

A  tomb  opens  in  the  earth,  and  a  man,  woman,  and 
child  issue  from  it  ;  their  hands  are  joined  in  sign  of 
adoration. 

How  can  the  reawakening  of  nature  under  the  influence 
of  the  Word  be  better  expressed  ?  We  must  admire  the 
way  in  which  the  symbol  answers  to  the  corresponding 
Hebrew  hieroglyphic. 

1.  Return  to  the  divine  World.  The  Spirit  finally 
regains  possession  of  itself — 

Original  Determined  Motion. 

2.  Life  renews  itself  by  its  own  motion — 

Vegetable  Life. 
Respiration. 

3.  The  material  world  progresses  one  degree  in  its 
ascension  towards  God — 

The  Vegetable  World. 


184 


THE   TAROT. 


20.    -i 
The  Judgment. 


AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

Primitive     j  The      Head      of 
Hieroglyphic  |             Man 

Astronomy         Saturn 

ORIGINAL   AND 
DETERMINED    MOTION 

Day                    Saturday 
Hebrew  letter   Eesli  (double) 

RESPIRATION 

Vegetable  Life 

OBSERVATIONS 

THE  VEGETABLE 

KINGDOM 

GENERAL  TRANSITION. 


185 


THE   FOOL. 


THE    MATE. 


21.    W 
21st  Hebrew  letter  (Shin). 

ORIGIN    OF    THE    SYMBOLISM    OF    THE    UNNUMBERED    CARD    OF 

THE    TAROT. 

The  Shin  1  expresses  the  same  hieroglyphic  meaning  as 
the  Zain  (7th  arcanum)  and  the  Samech  (15th)  :  this  is  an 
arrow,  an  object  directed  to  an  aim.  But  the  movement 
which  was  direct  in  the  Zain  (*),  and  which  became  circular 
in  the  Samech  (p),  here  takes  the  form  of  a  vibration  from 
one  pole  to  the  other,  with  an  unstable  point  of  equilibrium 
in  the  centre.  The  Shin  is  therefore  the  sign  of  relative 
duration  and  of  the  movement  relating  to  it,  whilst  the 

1  This  letter  is  derived  from  its  vocal  **  (  Yod),  become  a  consonant  ; 
and  it  adds  toits  original  meaning  the  respective  significations  of  the 
letters  T  (Zain)  and  D  (Samech). — Fabre  D'Olivet. 


186  THE   TAROT. 

Samedi  expresses  cyclic  movement,  and  therefore  absolute 
duration. 

Shin  is  one  of  the  three  mother  letters. 


TWENTY-FIRST    (UNNUMBERED)    CARD   OF   THE   TAROT. 

The  Foolish  Man. 

A  careless-looking  man,  wearing  a  fool's  cap,  with  torn 
clothes  and  a  bundle  upon  his  shoulder,  goes  quietly  on 
his  way,  paying  no  attention  to  a  dog  which  bites  his  leg. 
He  does  not  look  where  he  is  going,  so  walks  towards  a 
precipice,  where  a  crocodile  is  waiting  to  devour  him. 

This  is  an  image  of  the  state  to  which  unresisted  passion 
will  reduce  a  man.  It  is  the  symbol  of  the  Flesh  and  of 
its  gratification.  From  a  moral  point  of  view  the  follow- 
ing verses  of  Eliphas  Levi  well  explain  this  symbol — 

"  Souffrir  c'est  travailler,  c'est  accomplir  sa  tâche, 
Malheur  au  paresseux  qui  dort  sur  le  chemin  ; 
La  douleur,  comme  un  chien,  mord  les  talons  du  lâche, 
Qui,  d'un  seul  jour  perdu,  surcharge  un  lendemain."  l 

1.  More  rapid  return  to  the  Divine  World.  Personality 
asserts  itself — 

The  Motion  of  Relative  Duration. 

2.  The  intellect  roughly  appears  under  the  influence  of 
evolution — 

Innervation.     Instinct. 

1  "  Sorrow  lessens  in  work,  in  fulfilling  a  task, 
Woe  to  the  sluggard  who  sleeps  on  his  way  ; 
Like  a  dog  at  his  heels  pain  clings  to  him  fast, 
If  he  leave  for  to-morrow  the  work  of  to-day." 


GENERAL  TRANSITION. 


187 


3.  The  matter  of  the  world  attains  the  maximum  of  its 
material  progression — 

The  Animal  Kingdom. 


21.     w 

The  Foolish  Man. 


OBSERVATIONS 


AFFINITIES 

SIGNIFICATIONS 

Primitive       )  „,,       a 

\  lhe  Arrow 
Hieroglyphic   J 

\        The  Shin 
Hebrew  letter   r    (one  of  the  3 
J        mothers) 

THE   MOTION 

of 
Relative  Duration 

INNERVATION 

Instinct 

THE   ANIMAL   KINGDOM 


188 


THE  TAROT. 


LEMONDE.     o 


THE   WOULD. 


THE   WORLD. 


22.  n 

22nd  Hebrew  letter  (Tau). 

ORIGIN     OF     THE    SYMBOLISM    OF    THE    TWENTY-FIRST    CARD    OF 

THE    TAROT. 

The  Tau  has  the  same  hieroglyphic  meaning  as  the 
Daleth  (fourth  card),  the  womb;  but  it  is  chiefly  the  sign 
of  reciprocity,  the  image  of  all  that  is  mutual  and  reciprocal. 
It  is  the  si<m  of  si^ns,  for  to  the  abundance  of  the  letter 
Daleth  1  (fourth  card),  and  by  dint  of  the  resistance  and 
protection  of  the  letter  Teth,  ft  (ninth  card),  it  adds  the 
idea  of  perfection,  of  which  it  is  the  symbol. 

In  the  primitive  Hebrew  alphabet  the  Teth  was  repre- 
sented by  a  cross  (  +  ).  This  letter  is  double,  and  in 
astronomy  it  represents  the  Sun. 


GENERAL  TRANSITION.  189 

TWENTY-FIRST   CARD    OF   THE   TAROT. 

The  World. 

A  nude  female  figure,  holding  a  wand  in  each  hand,  is 
placed  in  the  centre  of  an  ellipsis,  her  legs  crossed  (like 
those  of  the  Hanged  Man  in  the  twelfth  card).  At  the 
four  angles  of  the  card  we  find  the  four  animals  of  the 
Apocalypse,  and  the  four  forms  of  the  Sphinx  :  the  Man, 
the  Lion,  the  Bull,  and  the  Eagle. 

This  symbol  represents  Macrocosm  and  Microcosm,  that 
is  to  say,  God  and  the  Creation,  or  the  Law  of  the  Absolute. 
The  four  figures  placed  at  the  four  corners  represent  the 
four  letters  of  the  sacred  name,  or  the  four  great  symbols 
of  the  Tarot. 

The  Sceptre     or  yod       =  Fire. 

The  Cup  or  he         —  Water. 

The  Sword       or  vau       =  Earth. 

The  Pentacle  or  2nd  he  =  Air. 

These  affinities  can  be  represented  thus — 
Sceptre  Pentacle 


Cup  Sword 

Between  the  sacred  word  that  signifies  God  and  the 
centre  of  the  figure  is  a  circle  or  an  ellipsis,  representing 
Nature  and  her  regular  and  fatal  course.  From  this  comes 
the  name  of  Rota,  wheel,  given  to  it  by  Guillaume  Postel. 


190  THE   TAROT. 

Lastly,  the  centre  of  the  figure  represents  humanity, 
Adam-Eve,  the  third  term  of  the  great  series  of  the 
Absolute,  which  is  thus  constructed  : — 

The  impenetrable  Absolute,  the  En  Soph  of  the   Kab- 
balists,  the  Parabrahm  of  the  Hindus — 

The  impenetrable  Absolute  or  God         ...    1st  septenary. 
The  soul  of  the  Absolute  or  Man  ...   2nd  septenary. 

The  body  of  the  Absolute  or  the  Universe  3rd  septenary. 

.  This  twenty-first  card  of  the  Tarot  therefore  contains 
in  itself  a  recapitulation  of  all  our  work,  and  proves  to  us 
the  truth  of  our  deductions. 

A  simple  figure  will  sum  up  what  we  have  said. 


7 '  oci 


D 


(j  HUrf-xNl  1 

*        1 

Ai         V 


V  au 


This  symbol  gives  us  an  exact  figure  of  the  construction 
of  the  Tarot  itself,  if  we  notice  that  the  figure  in  the  centre 
represents  a  triangle  (a  head  and  two  extended  arms) 
surmounting  a  cross  (the  legs),  that  is  to  say,  the  figure 
of  the  septenary  thus  formed  **. 

The  four  corners  therefore  reproduce  the  four  great 
symbols  of  the  Tarot.  The  centre  represents  the  action 
of  these  symbols  between  themselves,  represented  by  the 
ten  numbers  of  the  minor  arcana,  and    the  twenty-two 


GENERAL   TRANSITION. 


191 


letters  of  the  major  arcana.  Lastly,  the  centre  reproduces 
the  septenary  law  of  the  major  arcana  themselves. 

As  this  septenary  is  in  the  centre  of  three  circles,  repre- 
senting the  three  worlds,  we  see  that  the  sense  of  the 
twenty-one  arcana  is  once  more  determined  (3x7=  21). 

The  following  figure  indicates  the  application  of  the 
twenty-first  card  to  the  Tarot  itself. 


We  shall  also  see  that  this  card  of  the  Tarot  gives  the 
key  of  all  our  applications  of  the  pack  to  the  Year,  to 
Philosophy,  to  the  Kabbalah,  etc.,  etc. 


192 


THE   TAEOT. 


THE   TEKJSTAKY   OF   TRANSITION. 

The  Elements 


Original  and 

Determined 

Motion 


The   Motion 

of  Relative 

Duration 


Divine  Reproduction 


Nutrition 


The  Mineral  Kingdom 


Respiration     /.10 
Vegetable  Life 


Innervation 
Instinct 


The  Vegetable 
Kingdom 


(i\    The  Animal 
Kingdom 


Reproduction  of  Man         Reproduction  of  the  Universe 


The  Absolute 

containing  in  itself 

God 

Man 

The  Universe. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

GENERAL  SUMMARY  OF  THE  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT. 
THEOGONY — ANDROGONY — COSMOGONY. 

Involution  and  Evolution.  Theogouy — The  Absolute  according  to 
Wronski,  Lacuria,  and  the  Tarot — Theogony  of  divers  Religions 
identical  with  that  of  the  Tarot — Summary.  Androgony — 
Cosmogony. 

Figure  containing  the  Symbolism  of  all  the  Major  Arcana,  enabling 
the  Signification  of  each  Card  to  be  defined  immediately. 

General  Summary  of  the  Symbolism  of  the  Major 

Arcana. 

theogony — androgony — cosmogony. 

Having  completed  our  study  of  the  twenty-two  major 
arcana,  considered  separately,  we  will  now  review  as  clearly 
as  possible  the  knowledge  which  may  be  gathered  from 
the  preceding  explanations. 

We  have  already  established  from  the  study  of  the 
first  card,  that  three  primary  principles  are  considered 
throughout  their  evolution  :  the  Universe,  Man,  and  God. 

We  need  only  recall  grosso  modo  the  sense  of  each  card 
of  the  Tarot  to  prove  the  existence  of  a  well-established 
progression,  which  starts  from  God  the  Holy  Ghost  to  end 
in  Matter,  while  passing  through   a  number  of  varying 

o 


194  THE   TAROT. 

modalities.  Another  gradation  leads  from  Matter  to  God, 
the  primitive  origin  of  all  things. 

This  double  current  of  the  progressive  Materialization 
of  the  Divine,  or  Involution,  and  of  the  Progressive 
Divinization  of  the  Material,  or  Evolution,  has  been  too 
well  studied  by  our  eminent  friend  Ch.  Barlet,  for  us 
intentionally  to  vary  from  him  in  any  way  ;  we  shall 
therefore  quote  his  interesting  work  in  extenso,1  and  thus 
enable  the  reader  to  see  that  our  conclusions  are  abso- 
lutely identical,  although  we  have  been  led  to  them  by 
very  different  paths. 

But  our  present  object  is  to  review  as  clearly  as  possible 
the  meanings  of  the  major  arcana  of  the  Tarot,  regarded 
from  a  synthetic  point  of  view.  From  the  preceding 
chapters  it  will  be  seen  that  this  study  is  really  a  Cosmo- 
gony, or  study  of  the  creation  of  the  Universe,  crowned 
by  an  Androgony,  or  study  of  the  creation  of  Man,  and 
even  by  an  essay  on  Theogony,  or  study  of  the  innate 
creation  of  God. 


THEOGONY. 

The  Tarot  places  at  the  origin  of  all  things  the  Absolute 
undetermined,  undeterminable,  the  One,  both  knowing 
and  unknowing,  affirmative  and  negative,  force  and  matter; 
unnamable,  incomprehensible  to  man.2 

The  Unity  manifests  itself  to  itself  by  three  terms,  the 
highest  and  most  general  terms  which  the  human  com- 
prehension can  grasp  ;  terms  which  form  the  basis  of  all 
théogonies,  and  which  designate  the  same  principles  under 
a  multitude  of  varying  names. 

1  See  p.  253.  2  Ch.   Barlet,  Initiation,  p.  10. 


GENERAL  SUMMARY  OF  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.      195 

1.  The  first  of  these  terms  symbolizes  Absolute  activity 
in  all  its  acceptations,  the  origin  of  all  movement,  of  all 
masculine  creative  force. 

God  the  Father  :  Osiris — Brahma — Jupiter. 

2.  The  second  of  these  terms  symbolizes  Absolute 
passivity  in  all  its  acceptations,  the  origin  of  all  repose,  of 
all  feminine  preserving  force.  It  is  the  humid  principle 
of  nature,  even  as  the  first  is  the  igneous  principle. 

God  the  Son  :  Isis — Vishnu — Juno. 

The  third  of  these  terms  is  the  most  important  to  us. 
Synthetically  it  blends  the  two  preceding  terms  in  one 
Unity;  all  study  should  be  commenced  by  it,  for  no  being 
is  conceivable  unless  it  be  considered  synthetically,  and  the 
third  term  is  the  origin  of  all  synthesis.  It  is  Absolute 
Union  .in  all  its  acceptations,  the  origin  of  all  reality,  of 
all  equilibrium,  of  all  equilibrist  transforming  force.  It 
is  the  mercurial  principle  in  nature  balancing  the  two 
first. 

God  the  Holy  Ghost:  Horus — Siva — Vulcan. 

It  is  necessary  to  give  a  few  explanations  before  we 
proceed  further,  in  order  that  the  deductions  which  follow 
may  be  intelligible  to  our  readers. 

We  have  said  that  no  being  is  conceivable  unless  it 
be  considered  synthetically  :  we  must  now  explain  this 
sentence. 

Let  us  take  Man  for  our  example,  and  fullow  the  advice 
of  Claude  de  Saint-Martin  :  "  We  must  explain  nature 
by  man,  and  not  man  by  nature." 


196  THE   TABOT. 

Man,  regarded  synthetically,  is  composed  of  an  acting, 
animated  body. 

If  we  would  think  of  the  being  man  as  a  bod}7  only, 
without  reference  to  its  animation  or  to  its  faculty  of 
acting,  its  reality  immediately  disappears,  it  is  no  longer 
a  man  ;  we  are  considering  but  a  phantom  created  by  our 
spirit,  a  phantom  which  we  can  analyze,  study  in  all  its 
subdivisions,  but  which,  since  it  conveys  no  synthetic  idea, 
does  not  really  exist. 

If  in  the  same  way  we  wish  to  imagine  by  itself  the 
principle  which  animates  this  body,  which  makes  it  live, 
the  reality  at  once  disappears.  It  is  impossible  for  us 
to  separate  the  life  from  the  idea  of  the  body,  to  con- 
ceive what  this  thing  may  be  which  is  called  the  human 
Life,  if  we  wish  to  see  in  it  a  kind  of  metaphysical 
being.  It  is  on  this  point  that  materialistic  savants  find 
the  most  power  in  their  arguments  against  exclusively 
idealist  thinkers. 

The  difficulty  increases  considerably  if  it  be  a  question 
of  the  principle  which  causes  this  body  to  act — of  the  Will, 
of  the  Soul.  Analysis  here,  as  elsewhere,  can  be  brought 
into  use,  but  we  cannot  possibly  conceive  what  the  soul 
can  be  like  unclothed  in  a  form,  that  is  to  say,  in  a 
principle  that  differs  from  itself.  We  picture  to  ourselves 
a  small  sphere,  a  winged  head,  in  fact  anj^thing,  according 
to  individual  fancy,  but  never  the  soul  considered 
individually. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  moment  we  say  A  MAN,  these 
three  terms,  thus  synthetised,  assume  consistence  and 
become  the  expression  of  a  reality,  and  a  being,  formed 
of  a  body,  a  life  and  a  will,  defines  itself  quite  clearly. 

This  synthetic  action,  the  source  of  all  existence  and 
of  all  reality,  is  the  innate  property  of  the  third  term  in 


GENERAL  SUMMARY  OF   SYMBOLICAL   TAROT.       197 

our  Trinity  of  principles.  This  is  why  the  study  of  all 
realities  should  be  commenced  by  this  third  term.  Henri 
Wronski  has  always  adopted  this  method  ;  he  names  this 
principle  the  Neuter  Element,  and  places  it  at  the 
commencement  of  all  his  studies. 

* 

*      * 

Consequently,  the  Trinity,  composed  of  the  three  terms 
which  we  have  specified,  should  be  considered  under  two 
aspects. 

1.  We  should  first  look  at  the  synthesis  of  this  trinity, 
the  cause  of  its  reality.  The  third  term  (God  the  Holy 
Spirit)  contains  these  conditions  in  itself. 

2.  We  should  then  analyze  this  synthesis  by  dividing 
it  into  its  three  constituent  terms,  and  by  determining 
the  existence  of  the  two  opposite  terms,  active  and  passive, 
positive  and  negative.  We  must  not  forget  that  during 
this  analysis  we  destroy  the  reality  of  the  being  thus 
divided  into  fractions. 

Every  reality,  of  whatever  kind  it  may  be,  is  therefore 
composed  of  three  terms,  and  these  three  terms  are  con- 
tained in  one  sole  whole.  This  truth  is  quite  as  applicable 
to  physics  as  to  metaphysics  ;  the  works  of  Louis  Lucas 
upon  physics  and  chemistry,1  and  of  Wronski  in  mathe- 
matics,2 are  an  irresistible  argument  against  those  who 
think  that  a  philosophical  principle  is  a  foolish  idea, 
without  any  practical  import. 

The  third  term  of  our  théogonie  series,  or  God  the  Holy 
Ghost,  therefore  represents  the  whole  body  of  God,  who 
can  be  analyzed  in  this  way — 

1  Louis  Lucas,  Lou  Chimie  Nouvelle,  Paris,  1854.     18mo. 

2  Wronski,  Messianisme,  1825,  fol.  ;  and  above  all  Apoclictique 
Messianique,  1876,  fol. 


198 


THE   TAEOT. 


God  the  Holy  Spirit 

Synthesis 
3 


God  the  Son 

Antithesis 

2 


God  the  Father 

Thesis 
1 


To  sum  up  all  that  we  have  studied  so  far,  we  will  say 
that  we  have  discovered,  first  of  all — 

1.  An  indéterminable  and  unnamable  principle,  of  which 
we  are  content  to  assert  the  existence  only — 

2.  This  synthetic  principle,  when  analyzed,  is  found  to 
consist  of  a  Trinity  thus  constituted — 

Neuter 
Synthetic  Principle 


Negative 

Negative 

Principle 

2 


Positive 

+ 
Positive 

Principle 

1 


If  we  would  use  a  common  but  very  suggestive  image, 
we  should  say —  , 

The  constitution  of  God  is  thus  defined  by  the  Tarot — 

The  Spirit  of  God,  or  God  the  Father. 

The  Soul  of  God,  or  God  the  Son. 

The  Body  of  God,  or  God  the  Holy  Spirit.1 


1  Spirit  is  here  taken  in  the  sense  of  the  superior  and  creative 
principle:  soul  in  the  sense  of  median  and  animator.  Since  many 
writers  use  these  words  in  a  different  sens°,  it  is  useful  to  explain 
what  is  our  meaning  in  this  case. 


GENERAL  SUMMARY  OF  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.        199 

We  must  now  prove  that  the  conclusions  which  we  have 
reached  through  the  Tarot  agree  in  all  points  with  those 
of  every  author  who  has  treated  the  question  on  a  higher 
level  and  with  all  the  superior  théogonies  of  antiquity. 

1.   THE    PRINCIPAL     AUTHORS    WHO     HAVE     STUDIED     THIS 

QUESTION. 

We  have  chosen  from  amongst  the  authors  who  have 
studied  this  question  of  first  principles,  two  writers  who, 
starting  from  different  points  of  view,  support  the 
conclusions  of  the  Tarot  :     Lacuria  and  Wronski. 

F.  G.  Lacuria. 

This  eminent  writer,  in  his  book  on  the  Harmonies  of  the 
Being  expressed  by  Numbers,  starts  in  his  deductions  from 
the  three  words  used  by  St.  John  :  Vitay  Verbum,  Lux. 
He  analyzes  each  of  these  words,  establishes  the  connec- 
tion that  exists  between  it  and  the  Christian  Trinity,  and 
defines  each  of  the  elements  in  this  trinity — 

"Here  is  the  Trinity:  the  Father,  who  is  life  or  im- 
mensity ;  the  Son,  who  is  word  or  form,  and  distinction  or 
variety  ;  the  Holy  Spirit,  who  is  light  and  love,  or  unity. 
And  these  three  persons  are  only  one  God.  Their  unity  is 
not  only  in  the  external  fact  of  their  existence,  but  in  the 
essence  of  things,  for  they  are  inseparable  in  the  thought  of 
man  ;  no  one  can  imagine  one  without  the  others  "  (p.  43). 

"  In  the  commencement  was  the  BEING,  the  being  is  not 
undetermined,  but  it  is  distinct  from  the  NON-BEING  ;  it  sees 
that  it  is  the  being,  and  these  two  points  of  view,  partici- 
pating in  the  unity  of  the  substance  wrhich  they  affect, 
produce  by  their  union  THE  CONSCIENCE,  which  is  also  light 
or  harmony"  (vol.  ii.  p.  333). 


200  THE  TAROT. 

+  — 

The  Being  The  Non-Being 

The  Father  The  Son 

The  Life  The  Word 

00 

The  Conscience 

The  Holy  Spirit 

The  Light 


o 


First  principles  of  Lacuria. 


Henri   Wronski. 

This  author  interests  us  doubly,  for  his  conclusions  not 
only  agree  with  the  data  given  by  the  Tarot,  but  they  also 
throw  great  light  upon  them.  Let  us  therefore  listen  to 
him  (Apodictique,  p.  5) — 

"  Thus  the  reality  of  the  absolute,  Reality  in  itself  or 
reality  in  general,  is  unquestionably  the  first  determin- 
ation of  the  very  essence  of  the  absolute,  and  conse- 
quently the  first  principle  of  reason.  Without  it  as  an 
indispensable  condition,  as  we  have  just  admitted  it  to  be, 
every  assertion  made  by  reason  would  be  valueless.  And 
it  is  upon  this  fundamental  principle  of  reason,  upon  this 
indestructible  and  in  every  way  indispensable  condition, 
that  we  shall  now  establish  absolute  philosophy  itself  with 
the  same  infallibility. 

"In  the  first  place  this  reality  of  the  absolute,  which  we 
now  recognize  so  profoundly,  produces  or  creates  itself;  for, 
as  we  have  already  irrevocably  concluded,  the  absolute,  this 
indispensable  term  of  reason,  is  that  which  is  BY  itself. 
Thus  this  innate  generation,  this  autogeny  of  the  reality 
of  the  absolute,  this  creation  by  itself,  is  manifestly  a  second 


GENERAL  SUMMARY  OF  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.       201 

determination  of  the  very  essence  of  the  absolute  ;  and  the 
condition  by  which  alone  this  determination'  can  take  place 
constitutes  quite  as  manifestly,  and  in  ail  its  primitive 
purity,  the  faculty  which  is  designated  by  the  name  of 
Wisdom  (Aoyos,  das  Wissen). 

"  We  therefore  discover  wisdom  as  the  second  essential 
attribute  of  the  absolute  ;  this  primordial  faculty  which 
is  the  condition  of  all  creation,  or  rather  which  is  the 
creative  faculty  itself  in  its  loftiest  puissance,  as  we 
have  now  discerned  it,  is,  if  we  may  thus  express  it,  the 
instrument  of  autogeny,  that  is  to  say,  the  faculty  of  the 
creation  by  itself.  And  consequently  we  discover  in 
Wisdom,  shown  in  this  highest  creative  power,  the  second 
principle  of  reason,  quite  as  infallible  as  the  absolute 
itself,  from  which  we  have  now  deduced  it. 

"  Moreover,  in  the  reality  of  the  absolute,  the  necessary 
result  of  its  wisdom  or  of  its  innate  creation  is  permanent 
stability,  because,  precisely  through  being  what  it  is  by 
itself,  the  absolute  could  not  be  other  than  itself.  We  can 
therefore  understand  that  this  permanent  stability  in  the 
reality  of  the  absolute,  which  is  properly  its  autothesis, 
constitutes  a  third  determination  of  the  very  essence  of  the 
absolute,  and  we  shall  easily  recognize  that  this  stability, 
this  permanent  unchangeableness,  this  innate  unaltcr  ability , 
is  only  that  condition  of  the  reality  which  we  name  Being 
(&v,  das  Seyn). 

"  Thus,  we  discover  as  the  third  essential  attribute  of  the 
absolute,  the  Being,  the  condition  of  stability  in  reality, 
and  therefore  of  its  force  or  innate  unalterability ,  which  in 
the  absolute  constitutes  its  autothesis  itself.  And  conse- 
quently we  find  in  the  Being,  considered  almost  in  its  auto- 
thetic  origin,  the  third  principle  of  reason,  as  infallible  as 
the  absolute  itself,  from  which  we  have  deduced  it. 


202  THE   TAROT. 

"  We  therefore  already  possess  the  three  first  principles 
of  reason,  which,  as  we  have  just  seen,  are  the  three  first 
determinations  of  the  very  essence  of  the  absolute.  More- 
over, if  we  notice  on  the  one  hand  that  Wisdom  and  the 
Being,  taking  them  in  all  their  generality,  are  opposed  to 
each  other,  just  as  autogeny  and  antithesis — of  which  they 
form  the  conditions — are  opposed,  or  spontaneity  and  inertia, 
which  form  their  characters  ;  and  if  on  the  other  hand  we 
notice  that  Wisdom  and  the  Being,  these  antagonistic  con- 
ditions, are  neutralized  in  all  reality  in  general,  this 
reality — according  to  the  deductions  which  we  have  given 
— being  the  fundamental  principle  of  reason,  its  primitive 
basis,  we  shall  understand  that  the  three  principles  which 
we  have  discovered  in  the  determinations  of  the  essence 
itself  of  the  absolute,  are  really  the  three  primitive  principles 
of  the  supreme  Wisdom,  or  of  Philosophy." 

+  — 

Wisdom  The  Being 

Autogeny  Autothesis 

Principle  of  Motion  Principle  of  Stability 

GO 

Eeality 

Principle  of  Existence 

FIRST   PRINCIPLES    OF   WRONSKI. 

2.    THEOGONIES    OF   DIFFERENT   RELIGIONS. 

We  have  now  shown  the  identity  of  the  three  first 
principles  of  the  Tarot  with  the  philosophical  discoveries 
of  some  modern  authors.  We  need  only  revert  to  the 
study  of  the  first  arcanum  to  see  the  conclusions  which 
Fabre  d'Olivet  and  Claude  de  Saint-Martin  have  come 
to  upon  the  same  subject;   and  we  will  now  say  a  few 


GENERAL  SUMMARY  OF  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.       203 

words  upon  the  identity  of  the  deductions  of  the  Tarot 
with  the  religious  ideas  of  various  nations. 


EGYPTIAN    THEOGONY. 

Osiris  is  an  emanation  of  the  Great  Being  ;  he  reveals 
himself  in  three  persons — 

Amen,  who  brings  forth  the  hidden  forms  of  things, 
is  Power. 

Ptah  the  demi-urgus,  the  eternal  workman,  embodying 
the  primitive  ideas,  is  Wisdom. 

Osiris,  the  author  of  being,  the  source  of  all  life,  is 
Goodness. 

"  The  Egyptian  god  is  called  Amen  when  he  is 
regarded  as  the  hidden  force  which  brings  all  things  to 
the  light;  he  is  Ptah  when  he  accomplishes  all  things 
with  skill  and  truth  ;  lastly,  when  he  is  the  good  and 
beneficent  god,  he  is  named  Osiris." — Jamblique. 

Indeterminable  Principle 

Ea 

Divine  Trinity  : 

+  — 

Amen  Ptah 

00 

Osiris 


204  THE   TAROT. 

HINDU   THEOGONY. 


Indeterminable  Principle 

i 

PARABRAHM  : 

+ 

— 

Brahma 

Vishnu 

Creator 

Siva 
Transformer 

Preserver 

Here  is  an  analysis  of  this  conception  applied  to 
Cosmogony  : — 

PRIMITIVE   HINDU   COSMOGONY,   ACCORDING   TO   THE 

RIG-VEDA. 

There  was  neither  being  nor  no-being,  nor  ether,  nor  the 
roof  of  the  heavens;  nothing  enveloping  nor  enveloped. 
There  was  neither  death  nor  immortality  ;  nothing 
separated  the  darkness  of  night  from  the  light  of  day. 

But  That  One,  the  He,  breathed  alone  with  Her,  whose 
life  was  sustained  in  his  breast.  Of  all  those  who  have 
existed  since  that  time,  no  other  then  existed.  The 
darkness  covered  them  like  an  ocean,  which  cannot  be 
lightened.  This  universe  was  indistinct,  like  the  fluids 
mingled  with  the  waters  ;  but  this  mass,  which  was 
covered  by  a  crust,  was  at  last  organized  by  the  power 
of  contemplation. 

The  first  wish  was  formed  in  its  intelligence,  and  it 
became  the  original  productive  seed.  This  productive 
seed  became  Providence  or  sensitive  souls;  and  Matter  or 
Elements,  She  who  was  supported  in  his  breast  was  the 
inferior  part,  and  He  who  observes  was  the  superior  part. 
Who  can  know  exactly,  and  who  in  this  world  can  assert, 
from  whom  or  how  this  creation  took  place  ?  The  gods 
are  posterior  to  this  creation  of  the  world. 


GENERAL  SUMMARY  OF  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.       205 

KABBALISTTC    THEOGONY. 

Indeterminable  Princ  iple 

EX  SOPH 

The  Absolute 

Divine  Trinity  : 

+  — 

Chocmah  Binah 

Absolute  Wisdom  Absolute  Intelligence 

GO 

Kether 
Absolute  Equilibrist  Power 

We  might  carry  these  comparisons  much  further  ;  but 
it  is  useless  to  prolong  our  studies  unreasonably.  The 
curious  reader  can  refer  to  the  works  on  the  ancient 
théogonies,1  and  see  the  universal  harmony  that  exists  in 
the  primitive  principles  of  all  religions. 

It  will  be  sufficient  if  we  determine  the  universality 
of  the  three  first  principles,  which  we  name,  like  the 
Christians,  in  order  to  be  clearly  understood — 

+  — 

God  the  Father  God  the  Son 

GO 

God  the  Holy  Spirit 

These  principles  once  denned,  we  shall  see  them  in 
action  throughout  creation. 

The  first  principle  had  manifested  its  existence  to 
itself    in   the    second    principle    named    by    Christians  : 

1  See  particularly  P.  Renand,  Nouvelle  Symbolique,  Paris,  1877. 
8vo. 


206  THE   TAROT. 

the  Son.  Lastly,  these  two  principles  had  embodied 
themselves  in  the  third,  which  gave  them  substance. 
This  is  why  we  have  named  the  Holy  Spirit  the  body 
of  God. 

Now  the  same  law  of  creation  acting  in  the  affinities 
of  the  first  principle  with  the  second,  will  manifest  itself 
in  the  action  of  the  first  ternary  upon  itself,  to  give  birth 
to  the  following  Trinitv  : — 

God  the  Father,  the  principle  of  Will,  is  entirely  self- 
reflected  in  the  rough  Adam,  the  principle  of  Power  ;  God 
the  Son,  the  principle  of  Intelligence,  is  self-reflected  in 
the  gentle  Eve,  the  principle  of  Authority.  Lastly,  God  as 
a  whole,  or  God  the  Holy  Spirit,  clothed  these  two  mystical 
unities  in  a  body,  and  made  a  realit}7  of  them  in  the 
balanced  creation  of  Adam-Eve,  or  of  Humanity. 

Humanity,  the  image  of  Love,  also  contains  in  itself  a 
rough,  astringent  principle  (see  Jacob  Boëhm1),  and  a 
gentle,  insinuating  principle  (Jacob  Boëhm).  The  first  of 
these  principles,  symbolized  by  Adam,  is  the  origin  of  brute 
Force,  of  Power  in  all  its  manifestations.  The  second, 
symbolized  by  Eve,  is  the  origin  of  feminine  Grace,  of 
Authority.  We  have  seen  that  Power  and  Authority  find 
their  equilibrium  in  Love. 

Each  man.  a  reflected  molecule  of  humanity  made  in 
its  image,  contains  in  himself  an  Adam,  the  source  of  the 
Will — this  is  the  Brain  ;  an  Eve,  source  of  the  intelligence 
— the  heart  ;  and  he  should  balance  the  heart  by  the  brain, 
and  the  brain  by  the  heart,  to  become  a  centre  of  divine 
love. 

It  is  the  same  with  man  and  woman,  represented  by 
Adam  and  Eve  (mn  Eve,  the  life). 

1  Jacob  Boëhm,  The  Three  Principles. 


GENERAL  SUMMARY  OF  SYMBOLICAL   TAROT.       207 

But  just  as  the  Father  and  the  Son  have  become 
realities  in  the  Holy  Spirit,  as  Adam  and  Eve  are 
embodied  in  Humanity,  so  the  third  ternary  will  take 
rise  in  the  reciprocal  action  of  the  other  two. 

Natura  naturans,  or  creating,  will  take  her  birth 
under  the  action  and  the  reciprocal  reaction  of  God  the 
Father  and  of  Adam,  the  two  active  and  passive  creative 
principles.  Thus  also  appears  the  Universal  creative  Fluid, 
balancing  and  realizing  in  itself  both  will  and  power. 

From  this  again  will  be  born  Natura  naturata,  or 
preserving,  realizing  the  union  of  God  the  Son  and  of 
Eve,  at  the  same  time  that  the  Universal  preserving  Fluid, 
or  Universal  Life,  will  appear,  balancing  and  realizing  the 
Intelligence  and  Authority  which  define  its  innate  qualities. 

Lastly,  the  Holy  Spirit  and  Humanity,  the  divine  and 
the  human  bodies,  unite  and  manifest  themselves  eternally 
in  the  Living  Universe,  the  source  of  Universal  Attraction. 

For  even  as  the  Holy  Spirit  was  the  body  of  God,  the 
Son  his  soul,  and  the  Father  his  Spirit,  even  as  Humanity 
was  the  body  of  Adam,  Eve  his  life  or  soul,  and  Adam 
his  Spirit;  so  also  — 

The  Universe  is  the  body  of  God  ; 
Humanity  is  the  soul  of  God  ; 
God  Himself  is  the  Spirit  of  God. 

From  this  we  recognize  the  truth  of  the  opinion  of  the 
Pantheists,  who  declared  that  God  was  the  Universe  ;  but 
we  also  see  their  error,  when  they  refuse  to  acknowledge  in 
him  any  innate  consciousness.  For  as  the  consciousness  of 
man  is  independent  of  the  millions  of  cells  which  compose 
his  body,  so  the  consciousness  of  God  is  independent 
of  the  molecules  of  the  Universe  and  of  man  which 
form  its  body  and  its  soul.     We  might  partly  destroy  the 


208  THE   TAROT. 

Universe  without  in  any  way  diminishing  the  Divine 
Personality,  even  as  the  four  limbs  can  he  cut  off  a 
man  without  his  losing  the  consciousness  of  the  integrity 
of  his  personality.  This  is  why  the  conclusions  of 
Schopenhauer  and   Hartmann  are  partly  erroneous. 

Before  leaving  this  study,  we  must  once  more  express 
our  admiration  for  this  wonderful  book,  this  symbolical 
Tarot,  which  thus  defines  God — 

God  is  the  Absolute,  the  essence  of  which  is  impene- 
trable, formed  of  the  Universe  as  body,  of  Humanity  as 
soul,  and  of  himself  as  Spirit. 


GENERAL  SUMMARY  OF  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.       209 


THEOGONY. 


The  Spirit 
of  God 


The  Soul 
of  God 


The  Body 
of  God 


UNKNOWN   GOD 


God  the  Father 


Adam 


Natura 
Naturans 


God  the  Holy  Spirit 


Adam-Eve 
Humanity 


The  Universe 


God  the  Son 


Eve 


Natura 
Naturata 


Will 


Power 


Universal  Creative 
Fluid 


Beauty 


Love 


Intelligence  or 
Intuition 


Authority 


Universal  preserving 
Fluid  or 
Universal         Universal  Life 
Attraction 

P 


210  THE  TAROT. 


ANDROGONY. 

Each  man  contains  in  himself  an  Adam,  source  of  the 
Will,  i.  e.  the  Brain  ;  an  Eve,  source  of  the  Intelligence,1 
i.  e.  the  Heart,  and  he  should  balance  the  heart  by  the 
brain,  and  the  brain  by  the  heart,  if  he  would  become  a 
centre  of  divine  love. 

In  Humanity,  the  passive  Realistic  principle  of  God 
Himself,  the  Father  and  the  Divine  Son,  are  represented 
by  Man. 

Man  accomplishing  the  functions  of  God  the  creator  is 
the  Father  ;  the  woman  accomplishing  the  work  of  God 
the  preserver  is  the  Mother  ;  lastly,  Human  Love 
realizes  the  whole  Divinity  in  Humanity. 

The  human  family  is  therefore  the  representation  of 
the  Divinity  upon  earth.  The  Tarot  also  teaches  us  this 
fact  by  its  minor  arcana  (king  or  father,  queen  or  mother, 
knight  or  young  man,  knave  or  child)  ;  and  it  was  so 
thoroughly  understood  by  ancient  science,  that  the  whole 
social  organization  was  based  upon  the  family,  instead  of 
upon  the  individual,  as  it  is  in  modern  times.2  That 
the  social  organization  of  China  has  been  maintained  for 
so  many  centuries,  is  solely  due  to  the  principle  of  basing 
everything  upon  the  family.3 

The  characteristics  of  the  human  Ternary  are  :  Adam, 
Necessity,  the  image  and  reflection  of  Will  and  Power; 
Eve,  Liberty,  the  image  and  reflection  of  Intelligence 
and  Authority;  and  Adam  and  Eve,  Charity,  the  image 

1  Intelligence  is  here  taken  in  the  sense  of  Intuition,  and  not  in  the 
sense  usually  attributed  to  it  by  the  Philosophy  of  the  Universities. 

2  See  Saint- Yves  d'Alveydre,  Mission  des  Juifs,  1884. 

3  See  Simon,  La  Cité  Chinoise,  1886.     8vo. 


GENERAL  SUMMARY  OF  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.       211 

and  reflection  of  Love  and  Beauty  given  by  the  constituent 
terms. 

Realization   and   Justice,   balanced    by   Prudence, 

indicate  the  moral  constitution  of  Man,  whilst  the 
Positive  Astral  Light  (or  OD),  the  Negative  Astral 
Light  (or  OB),  and  the  Equilibrate  Astral  Fluid  (or 
AOUR),  demonstrate  the  origin  of  his  physical  constitution. 

Magic  Power,  Courage,  and  Hope  manifest  the  moral 
qualities  of  man,  whilst  Force  potential  in  its  manifest- 
ation, reflected  Life,  and  Force  balancing  the  two  preceding 
qualities,  indicate  the  influence  of  the  Universe  in  him. 

Thus,  the  law  which  governs  all  these  manifestations  of 
God  in  the  series  of  his  creations  is  Emanation. 

From  the  unique  but  fathomless  centre  emanates,  in 
the  first  place,  a  Trinity  of  absolute  principles  which 
serves  as  a  model  for  all  the  posterior  emanations  of  the 
Being  principle  itself.  Each  element  of  this  Trinity 
manifests  itself  in  two  great  principles,  of  which  it  is  the 
source  :  from  the  first  principle,  or  the  Father,  emanate 
successively  Adam  and  Nature  creating,  naturans,  accord- 
ing to  Spinoza  ;  from  the  second  principle,  or  the  Son, 
emanate  Eve  and  Nature  naturata,  or  recipient  ;  lastly, 
the  third  principle,  or  the  Holy  Spirit,  serves  as  a  model 
to  the  similar  constitution  of  Adam-Eve,  or  Humanity  and 
the  Universe. 

In  this  way  also  the  Ternary,  emanated  from  the 
mysterious  Unity,  soon  constitutes  a  Septenary  formed  by 
the  various  emanations  of  these  three  Principles,  like  the 
seven  colours  of  the  scale  of  light  formed  by  the  combination 
of  three  simple  colours,  themselves  emanated  from  one 
single  light  ;  or  like  the  seven  notes  of  the  musical  scale, 
formed  by  the  fundamental  trinity  of  sounds. 

The  Septenary  formed  of  "  two  Ternaries  in  the  midst  of 


212  THE   TAROT. 

which  the  Unity  upholds  itself,"  l  is  therefore  the  expression 
of  a  being  completely  constituted.  This  is  now  confirmed 
by  the  recent  data  given  by  Hindu  Theosophy  upon  the 
seven  principles  of  Man,  and  upon  the  seven  principles  of 
the   Universe? 

We  could  apply  the  Tarot  to  the  explanation  of  these 
data;  but  we  feel  sure  that  it  will  soon  be  done,  and 
we  consider  it  useless  to  lengthen  our  work  too  much. 

We  will  therefore  conclude  our  study  upon  man  by 
pointing  out  his  constitution  as  given  by  the  Tarot,  which 
teaches  that  his  body  comes  from  the  Universe,  his  soul 
from  the  Astral  plane,  whilst  his  Spirit  is  a  direct 
emanation  from  God.3 

1  Sepher  Yetzirah  (trans.  Papus),  chap.  vi. 

2  See  Sinnet,  Esoteric  Buddhism  ;  H.  P.  Blavatsky,  Secret  Doctrine  ; 
and  all  the  publications  of  the  Theosophical  Society. 

3  See  for  further  developments  the  works  of  Paracelsus  and  Van 
Helmont. 


GENERAL  SUMMARY  OF  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.       213 


AND&OGONY. 


The  Spirit 
of  Man 

(intellectual) 


Adam  Creator 
the  Father 


The  Soul 
of  Man 

(moral) 


The  Body 
of  Man 

now  materialized 
(physical) 


Realization 


Astral  Light 

(or) 


Necessity 


Magic  Power 
(to  will) 


Potential 
Manifestation 


Love 


Prudence 


Astral  Fluid 
(aour) 


Charity 


Hope 


Eve  Preserver 
the  Mother 


Justice 


Elementary 
Existence 

(OB) 


Liberty 


Courage 
(to  dare) 


Reflected 
Transitory  Life 


Equilibrist  Force 


214  THE   TAROT. 


COSMOGONY. 

As  we  descend  the  ladder  of  the  emanations  of  the 
Absolute  Being,  the  principles  become  more  material  and 
less  metaphysical.  The  Tarot  teaches  us  that  the 
Universe  results  from  the  participation  of  the  Human  in 
the  creative  actions  of  the  Divine,  a  profound  mystery, 
which  can  throw  much  light  upon  the  theological  theories 
of  the  Fall.  Jacob  Boëhm,  the  sublime  visionary  shoe- 
maker, and  Claude  de  Saint-Martin,  his  admirer  and 
disciple,  give  upon  this  subject  some  explanations  which 
may  be  easily  understood  with  the  Tarot,  and  to  which 
we  refer  curious  inquirers. 

God  manifests  himself  in  the  Universe  by  his  third 
trinitarian  manifestation  :  Natura  naturans,  realized  in 
the  Universal  Transforming  Principle,  Natura 
naturata,  in  Involution  ;  and  lastly  in  the  mysterious 
cyclic  force  which  we  have  analyzed,  in  reference  to  the 
15th  arcanum,  and  which  we  name  the  Fatal  Force 
of  Destiny.  This  is  the  God  adored  by  materialist 
science,  and  we  see  that  unconsciously  its  homage  is 
offered  to  the  Divinity  itself  under  its  most  material 
form,  even  whilst  it  foolishly  boasts  of  Atheism. 

Death,  Corporeal  Life,  and  the  Destiny  which 
rules  their  mutual  connection,  constitute  the  preserving 
principles  of  the  Universe;  lastly,  Plastic  Force, 
Individual  Life,  and  the  Astral  Light  in  circulation, 
show  us  the  means  of  Transformation  and  of  Realization 
used  by  the  Cosmos. 

But  these  are  abstract  principles;  if  we  wish  to  see 
them  in  action  we  must  consider  the  following  ternary. 
The  Universal  Transforming  Principle  marks  its  existence 


GENERAL  SUMMARY  OF  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.      215 

by  the  Destruction  of  beings  and  of  things;  but  the 
Opposing  Principle,  Involution,  at  once  immortalizes 
Destruction  by  the  influx  of  new  divine  currents  into 
Chaos. 

Adam  materialized  his  nature  by  the  FALL  of  his  spirit 
into  matter,  the  source  of  Death  ;  but  the  Corporeal  Life, 
the  source  of  Hope,  arises  and  provides  the  means  of 
redeeming  the  fault,  by  suffering  in  the  Material  Body. 

Lastly  Matter  itself  appears,  the  final  term  of  invo- 
lution, after  which  recommences  the  grand  Evolution 
towards  the  primitive  centre. 

It  is  unnecessary  to  say  that  we  only  wished  to  give  a 
rapid  sketch  of  the  evidence  of  the  Tarot  upon  Theogony, 
Androgony,  and  Cosmogony,  without  entering  into  detail. 
In  fact  these  are  very  serious  questions,  which  require 
whole  volumes  to  themselves,  and  we  had  not  the  least 
intention  of  discussing  them  in  a  few  pages. 


216 


THE   TAROT. 


The  Spirit  of 
the  Universe 


The  Soul  of 
the  Universe 


COSMOGONY. 


Natura  naturans 

in  action 
The  Universal 
transforming 
Principle      \ 


Natura  naturata 
in  action 

Involution 


Death 


The  Body  of        The  Plastic 
the  Universe  Force 


The  Universe 
in  action 
The  fatal  force  of 
Destiny 


The  Corporeal  Life 


Destiny 


The  Individual 
Life 


/ 


The  Astral  Light 
in  circulation 
Nah  ash 


Destruction 


The  Fall  of  Adam 


The  Visible 
World 


Chaos 


The  Material  Body 


Matter 


Immortality 


Hope 


The  Physical 
Forces 


GENERAL  SUMMARY  OF  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.       217 

Let  us  now  recapitulate  a  little,  so  that  we  may 
definitely  end  the  involution  of  the  three  grand  principles  : 

From  God  the  Father  have  emanated  successively — 

Adam  Will 

Natura  Naturans  Power 

Then  their  form  The  Universal  Creative  Fluid. 

Adam  realized  in  the  Father  has  produced  Realization 
and  the  Astral  Light  ;  whilst  the  Will  was  realized  in 
Necessity,  Supreme  Power  is  shown  in  Magic  Power,  and 
the  universal  creative  Fluid  in  Force  potential  in  its 
manifestation. 

ÎNatura  naturans  realized  in  the  Universal  Transforming 
Principle  has  produced  Death,  and  the  Universal  Plastic 
Force,  with  their  forms,  Destruction,  the  Fall  of  Adam, 
and  the  visible  world. 

These  are  all  the  principles  that  have  successively 
emanated  from  the  Father,  and  which  represent  him.  We 
have  reproduced  them  in  a  tableau — 

GOD   THE   FATHER 


Positive  Emanations 


ADAM 

the  Father 


NATURE 


Realization 


Astral 
Light 


Death 


Plastic 
Force 


Necessity 


Negative  Emanations 


CREATIVE   FLUID 


Manifest 
Force 


Destruction 


Fall  of 
Adam 


Visible 

World 


The  two  following  figures  arranged  upon  the  same  plan 
as  this  one,  give  the  emanations  of  the  two  other  principles 
of  the  first  ternary. 


218 


THE  TAROT. 


GOD   THE   SON 


EVE 

the  Mother 

\ 


NATURE 

Involution 


Justice  Elementary    Corporeal 

Existence  Life 


INTELLIGENCE      AUTHORITY  UNIVERSAL    LIFE 


Courage 

Liberty     Immortality  J    Reflected  and. 

Transitory  Life 


Individual 
Life 


Hope 


Physical 
Forces 


GOD   THE   HOLY   SPIRIT 


ADAM-EVE 

Humanity 
Love 


KOSMOS 

Fate 


BEAUTY 


UNIVERSAL   ATTRACTION 


Destiny        (    Charity 

Prudence    Astral  Fluid      Nahash 
(aour) 


/ 

Hope 


Equilibrist 
Force 


Chaos 


Material 
Body 


Matter 


In  our  Introduction  to  the  study  of  symbolism  we  have 
given  a  numbered  figure  which  enables  us  to  determine 
immediately  the  meaning  of  any  card  in  the  Tarot. 

If  we  now  apply  all  that  we  have  said  upon  the 
symbolism  of  each  of  our  cards  to  this  subject,  we  can 
condense  the  whole  symbolism  of  the  major  arcana  in 
one  figure. 

The  new  tableau  thus  formed  will  give  us  the  sense 
of  all  our  principles,  whatever  their  number  may  be,  and 
this  is  how  we  obtain  this  meaning — 


GENERAL  SUMMARY  OF  SYMBOLICAL  TAROT.       219 

USE   OF   THE   TABLEAU. 

1.  Seek  in  the  horizontal  column,  to  the  left  of  the  principle 
under  consideration,  the  sense  written  there. 

2.  Having  ascertained  this  meaning,  return  to  your  principle 
and  search  in  the  vertical  column  at  the  bottom  the  great  principle 
(God,  Man,  or  the  Universe)  which  is  written  there. 

3.  Combine  the  meaning  first  obtained  with  the  name  placed 
in  the  vertical  column,  adding  to  it  the  word  (itself  or  manifest) 
written  in  the  vertical  column  which  contains  the  principle  of 
which  you  are  seeking  the  meaning. 

An  example  will  explain  this  better. 

Let  us  ascertain  the  meaning  of  the  Mother — ■ 

The  first  term  of  the  8th  arcanum. 

1.  I  look  in  the  horizontal  column  containing  the  word  Mother 
and  I  find  at  the  end,  to  the  left,  the  following  meaning — 

Active  preserving  Principle. 

The  Mother  is  the  Active  preserving  Principle.     Of  what? 

2.  In  order  to  know,  I  seek  in  the  vertical  column  containing 
the  word  Mother,  and  at  the  bottom  I  find  Man  or  Humanity. 

The  Mother  is  the  Active  preserving  Principle  of  Humanity. 

3.  I  add  to  the  word  Humanity  the  word  placed  in  the  small 
vertical  column  which  contains  the  word  Mother.  This  word 
is  Himself  if  relating  to  man,  or  itself  if  we  take  the  sense  of 
Humanity.      We  should  say — ■ 

The  Mother  is  the  Active  preserving  Principle  of  Man  himself 
or  of  Humanity  itself. 

This  example  clearly  indicates  how  this  tableau  should 
be  used. 


TAB 

Recapitulating  the  Symbolism  of  all   the  Major 
Arcana  to  be  immediately  de- 


L  E  A  U 

!    Arcana,  enabling  the  definition  of  any  one  of  thes 

termined.     (S  219.) 


CREATIVE 
PRINCIPLE 

•     Active 

CREATIVE 
PRINCIPLE 


PRESERVING 
PRINCIPLE 

n,     iotfvi 

PRESERVING 
PRINCIPLE 

PRESERVING 
PRINCIPLE 


her  '  Will 

1  4 


2  5 

Authority 


God  the  Holy 

Spirit 


Humanity 


7 

I 


Himself     O     M  u 

+  — 

GOD      (21) 


MA 

IlI'MA 


10 

Magic  Tower 


li 


B 
bliuitory  Life 


12 

(WUDO»] 

E.iuilil.rUt  Fore? 


13 


Involution 
14 

Corporeal  Life 
[ndividnal  Life 


Destruction 


16 
The  Fall  of  Adu 


The  Visible  World 


Manifested 

N       (21) 

XITY 


rïahatD 

Astral  Light 
in  circulation 


17 

Hope 


The  Material 
Body 


Itself      (1)    ManifaatBd 
+  — 

UNIVERSE  (21) 


Kingdom 


I 

20 
Bespiratfon 

Kingdom 


Kingdom 


Return  (n) 


the  Unity 


222 


THE    TAROT. 


Tableau  indicating    the   revolutions  yod-he-vau-lie    in    numbers 
(positive  arcana)  :  (yod=l,  he  =  2,  vau  =  3,  2nd  he  =  4). 
(Key  to  the  preceding  Tableau.) 

12  3  4 


I.  1 


II.  2 


III.  3 


IV.  4 


Oof  4 

2       in       X. 


j   of  4 


:( 


in  XVI. 

2 


:l 


of  4 

in  XXII. 
3 


of  4 
in 
4 


PART   III. 


APPLICATIONS    OF    THE   TAROT. 


CHAPTER  XV. 

GENERAL  KEY  TO  THE  APPLICATIONS  OF  THE  TAROT. 

The  Principle  and  the  Forms — The  Twenty-first  Card  of  the  Tarot  is 
a  Figure-principle — The  Tarot — The  Year — The  Month — The 
Da}' — The  Human  Life. 

General  Key  to  the  Applications  of  the  Tarot. 

We  have  already  stated  that  the  twenty-first  card  gives 
the  key  to  the  construction  of  the  Tarot.  The  utility  of 
this  arcanum  does  not  end  here  ;  we  shall  now  see  that  it 
is  the  hey  to  every  application  of  the  Tarot. 

Some  explanation  may  be  necessary  as  to  the  manner 
in  which  a  symbolical  figure  can  be  applied  to  conceptions 
of  very  different  orders,  without  undergoing  the  least 
transformation. 

Let  us  take  one  very  simple  example,  chosen  in  the 
realm  of  experimental  science,  by  applying  the  analogical 
method  to  its  study.  Let  us  represent  the  well-known 
phenomenon  of  the  decomposition  of  the  white  light  by 
the  prism. 

We  place  the  prism,  indicated  by  a  triangular  figure,  in 
the  centre  ;  the  white  light,  represented  by  parallel  lines, 
enters  it  on  one  side  :  from  the  other  the  colours  issue. 

Q 


22G  THE   TAKOT. 

They  are  represented  by  the  refracted  and  more  or  less 
oblique  lines. 

The  words    Prism,  White  Light,  and    Colours,  indicate 
all  the  phases  of  the  phenomenon. 


If,  however,  we  reflect  that  after  all  it  is  only  a  general 
force  (the  white  light)  which  undergoes  various  changes, 
according  to  the  quantity  of  matter  with  which  it  comes 
in  contact  (the  different  thicknesses  of  the  prism),1  we 
shalleasily  grasp  another  aspect  of  the  figure. 

In  fact  the  work  of  Louis  Lucas,  unconsciously  continued 
by  contemporary  scientific  men,  proves  by  evidence  the 
unity  of  force  in  action  throughout  Nature.  The  different 
physical  forces,  heat,  light,  or  electricity,  are  only  repre- 
sentations of  this  unique  force  differently  modified,  accord- 
ing to  the  quantity  of  matter  with  which  it  comes  in 
contact. 

Thus  the  white  light  in  contact  with  the  large  amount 
of  matter  at  the  base  of  the  prism  becomes  violet  :  in  the 
same  way  the  unique  force  coming  in  contact  with  much 
matter  becomes  heat,  or  placed  in  contact  with  little 
matter  becomes  light  or  electricity. 

We  can  therefore  represent  this  new  phenomenon  without 

1  See  Louis  Lucas,  Chimie  Nouvelle,  chapter  upon  "  Angulaison." 


GENERAL   KEY  TO  APPLICATIONS   OF  TAROT.      227 

changing  the  form  of  our  figure  in  any  way  ;  only  the  words 
need  vary — 


Here  the  different  quantities  of  matter  are  represented 
by  the  different  thicknesses  of  the  prism,  the  unique  force 
corresponding  with  the  white  light  by  the  parallel  lines, 
the  various  physical  forces  responding  to  the  various 
colours  by  the  refracted  lines. 

If  any  one  should  consider  that  these  two  examples 
belong  to  the  realm  of  physics,  and  are  therefore  insuffi- 
cient to  generalize  a  phenomenon  to  this  point,  we  can 
answer  by  another  instance  quoted  from  physiology. 

Physiology  teaches  us  that  all  the  organs  in  man  act 
under  the  influence  of  the  blood.  Thus  the  latter,  acting 
upon  the  salivary  glands,  produces  the  saliva,  acting  upon 
the  stomach  the  gastric  juice  is  secreted,  upon  the  liver 
in  certain  cases  it  produces  bile,  etc.,  etc. 

In  short,  this  physiological  phenomenon  reduces  itself  to 
one  unique  agent  (the  blood),  acting  upon  the  different 
organs  (the  salivary  glands,  stomach,  liver),  and  producing 
secretions  of  equally  different  natures  (saliva,  gastric  juices, 
bile). 

Can  we  not  therefore  represent  the  different  organs 
by  the  different  thickness    of    the    piism,  the  different 


228 


THE  TAROT. 


transformations  of  the  unique  force  by  the  refracted  rays, 
and  the  unique  force  itself  by  the  parallel  lines  ? 

The  correspondence  is  exact  on  all  points,  and  the  same 


figure  can  be  used  once  more — 


Thus  the  figure  has  never  changed  :  only  the  words 
applied  to  its  different  parts  have  varied.  The  basis  of 
all  occult  science  and  of  the  analogical  method  resembles 
this  example  :  one  fixed  and  invariable  figure,  which  is 
always  the  same  (Ex.  :  the  figure),  to  which  various  orders 
of  phenomena  can  be  successively  applied. 

The  twenty-first  card  of  the  Tarot  is  a  figure-principle 
of  the  same  nature  as  the  prism  which  we  have  just 
studied,  and  a  few  examples  of  the  various  methods  in 
which  it  can  be  applied  will  fully  enlighten  us  upon  this 
point. 

We  have  seen  that  the  four  figures  in  the  corners  of  the 
twenty-first  card  represent  the  four  animals  of  the  Evan- 
gelist. In  the  centre  stands  a  woman,  the  ima^e  of 
Humanity,  and  between  the  two  symbols  is  a  crown  of 
elliptic  form.   • 

This  shows  us  that  there  will  always  be  four  fixed 
principles  in  every  application  of  this  card  (since  the 
symbols  placed  at  the  four  corners  of  the  square  do  not 
move),  and  a  certain  number  of  mobile  principles  repre- 


GENERAL   KEY  TO  APPLICATIONS   OF  TAROT.      229 

sented  by  the  wheel,  rota,  which  occupies  the  centre  of  the 
symbols. 

This  figure  can  never  change,  since  it  is  a  figure- 
principle  :  the  words  alone  that  may  be  applied  to  it  can 
vary. 

Thus  we  have  seen  the  four  following  symbols — 


Man 


Bull 


become 


Ea^le 


Pentacles 


Lion 


Sword 


Sceptre  Cup 

We  see  that  none  of  the  symbols  have  changed,  but  the 
words  only. 


230 


THE  TAROT. 


The  same  rule  applies  to  every  application  of  the  Tarot. 
Thus  if  we  take  astronomy,  the  four  figures  will  be  the  four 
seasons,  the  crown  is  the  zodiac,  and  the  nude  figure  (Eve) 
the  animating  system  of  the  zodiac,  the  planets;  thus — 


Winter 


Autumn 


Spr 


incr 


Summer 


This  shows  us  the  progress  of  the  sun,  as  it  gives  birtli 
to  the  year.  If  we  wish  to  know  that  of  the  moon  as  it 
produces  the  month,  the  four  seasons  would  become  the 
four  lunar  phases,  the  zodiac  would  be  the  twenty-eight 
houses  of  the  moon,  and  the  centre  the  sun,  which  animates 
the  moon  ;  thus — 

New  Moon  Last  Quarter 


First  Quarter 


Fall  Moon 


GENERAL   KEY  TO   APPLICATIONS   OF   TAROT.       231 


If  we  wish  for  the  horoscope  of  a  single  day  we  find  it 
•  figun 

Niskt 


in  the  following  figure— 


Evening 


Dawn 


Noon 


Here  the  earth  occupies  the  position  of  the  moon  in  the 
moitth  and  of  the  sun  in  the  year. 

If  these  astronomical  data  weary  us,  we  can  study  the 
circle  of  the  Human  Life,  and  the  figure  will  assume  a 
new  aspect. 


OKI  Age 


Maturity 


Childhood 


You  tli 


A  profound   symbol,  which  indicates  that  the   Human 
Will  creates  the  fatality  in  which  man  moves,  under  the 


232 


THE  TAROT. 


influence  of  the  providential  cycle  of  the  four  ages  of  the 
human  life.  If  we  know  that  Providence  (the  outer  circle) 
acts  upon  the  Future,  Fatality  (the  intermediate  circle) 
upon  the  Past,  and  the  Human  Will  (centre  circle)  upon 
the  Present,  we  shall  see  the  basis  of  the  divining  Tarot. 

We  think  that  these  examples  are  sufficiently  clear  to 
enable  us  to  proceed,  and  we  shall  now  study  some  appli- 
cations of  the  Tarot,  leaving  to  the  student  the  work  of 
discovering  a  larger  number. 


NET SA H 


il- 


The  keg  t«  the  great  arcammi. 


_^_.._J 


CHAPTER  XYI. 

THE  ASTRONOMICAL   TA  ROT. 

Egyptian  Astronomy — The  Four  Seasons — The  Twelve  Months — 
The  Thirty-six  Decani — The  Planets — Absolute  Analogy  with 
the  Tarot — Figure  containing  the  Application  of  the  Tarot  to 
Astronomy — Key  to  the  Astrological  Works  of  Christian — ■ 
Oswald  Wirth's  Astronomical  Tarot. 

The  Astronomical  Tarot. 

In  order  to  demonstrate  the  accuracy  of  the  principles 
upon  which  the  construction  of  the  Tarot  is  based,  we  will 
take  the  constitution  of  the  Universe  itself,  as  shown  by 
Astronomy,  for  our  example  of  the  first  application  of  its 
system. 

It  is  known  that  the  Egyptians  divided  the  year  into 
four  seasons,  each  composed  of  three  months.  Each  month 
contained  three  decani  or  periods  of  ten  days,  which  gave 
three  hundred  and  sixty  days  in  each  year.  They  added 
to  complete  it  a  period  of  five  days,  or  Epagomenes, 
placed  after  the  30th  degree  of  the  Lion  (August). 

We  must  therefore  find  in  our  Tarot — 

1.  The  four  seasons  ; 

2.  The  twelve  months,  or,  better  still,  the  twelve  signs 
of  the  zodiac  ; 


234  THE   TAROT. 

3.  The  thirty-six  decani. 

Moreover  each  month,  or,  still  better,  each  zodiacal  sign, 
and  each  of  the  decani  is  ruled  by  a  planet. 


1.  The  Four  Seasons. 

The  four  figures  of  the  Tarot  correspond  absolutely  with 
the  four  seasons  of  the  year. 

If  we  then  look  at  the  twenty- first  card  of  the  Tarot, 
the  origin,  as  we  have  seen,  of  all  its  applications,  we  shall 
see  that  the  four  figures  in  the  corners  represent  the  four 
colours  of  the  Tarot,  and  in  this  case  the  four  seasons  of 
the  year. 

The  elliptic  space  between  these  four  figures  and  the 
centre  correspond  to  the  zodiac  and  its  divisions. 

Finally,  the  central  portion  corresponds  to  the  planets, 
which  influence  the  whole  system. 


2.  The  12  Signs  of  the  Zodiac. 

Each  colour  represents  one  season.  Each  season  is 
composed  of  three  months.  How,  then,  will  the  months 
be  represented  in  our  colour  ? 


THE  ASTRONOMICAL  TAROT.  235 

The  months  will  be  represented  by  the  figures,  and  the 
correspondence  is  established  in  this  way — 

King.         1st  Mouth  or  Active  Month  in  the  Season. 

Creative  Month.      Yod. 

Queen.       2nd  Month  or  Passive  Month  in  each  Season. 
Preserving  Month,     lie. 

Knight.     3rd  Month   or  Realizing  Month,   Equilibrist 
of  the   Season.      Van. 

Knave.       Transition  from  the  preceding  Season  to  the 
one  following.     Epagomene.1 

(Consult,  for  further  details,  the  first  part  of  our  study  upon 
the  Tarot.) 

We  therefore  find  twelve  figures,  which  respond  to  the 
twelve  signs  of  the  Zodiac,  as  follows — 

King  of  Sceptres  The  Ram  ^ 

Sceptres       Queen  The  Bull  >  Spring 

Knight  The  Twins         J 
Knave                 Transition  Epagomene 


King  of  Cups  Cancer  \ 

y  Sum  mi 


Cups  Queen  The  Lion  V  Summer 

Knight  The  Virgin        J 
Knave                  Transition  Epagomene 

King  of  Swords  The  Balance      \ 

Swords  Queen  The  Scorpion      j-  Autumn 

Knight  Sagittarius         J 
Knave                  Transition  Epagomene 

King  of  Pentacles  Capricornus       ^j 

Pentacles     Queen  Aquarius  V  Winter 

Knight  The  Pishes        J 
Knave                  Transition  Epagomene 

1  Thus  the  Tarot  places   one  epagomene,  or  complementary  day, 
after  each  season. 


236  THE   TAROT. 

3.  The  36  Decani. 

Each  season  is  divided  into  three  months,  but  each 
month  is  divided  into  three  decani,  or  periods  of  ten  days 
each. 

We  need  only  recall  the  analogy  existing  between  the 
figures  and  the  numbers  in  the  minor  arcana,  to  ascertain 
which  cards  of  the  Tarot  represent  these  new  divisions. 

If  we  take  one  of  the  figures — the  King,  for  instance — 
we  know  that  this  kin»;  governs  certain  cards  :  the  Ace, 
two,  three,  and  the  first  ternary. 

We  then  obtain  the  following  analogies — 

King  of  Sceptres  :  zodiacal  sign,  the  Ram. 

Ace.  1st   Decan   or   Active   Decan   of   the    Month. 

Creative  Decan.      Yod. 

Two.  2nd  Decan  or  Passive  Decan  of  the  Month. 
Forming  or  Preserving  Decan.     He. 

Three.     3rd  Decan  or  Equilibrist  Decan.      Van. 

Four.  Transition  between  the  third  Decan  of  the 
actual  series,  to  the  first  Decan  of  the 
following  series,  which  it  forms. 

The  thirty-six  decani  are  therefore  represented  in  the 
Tarot  in  the  following  series — 

f  Ace  of  Sceptres 
King  \    2  — 

i  3  — 

r  4  —  1st  Decan  \ 

Queen    \    5  —  2nd     —      I  of  the  Bull 


i   6  —  3rd     —     j 

- 
r  7  —  1st  Decan  ^ 

Knight  J    8  —  2nd     —      I  of  the  Twins 

{   9  —  3rd      —      J 

Knave     10       Transition 


THE   ASTRONOMICAL  TAROT. 

Ace  of  Cups 


237 


King  4    2 
I  3 


1st  Decan 

2nd    —      j-  of  Cancer 

3rd     —     J 


\ 


1st  Decan 


Queen 


I 
-  J 


of  the  Lion 


Knight  4    8 
I  9 
Knave     10       Transition 

Ace  of  Swords 


King  - 

I  3 


r  Ace  oi  bw 

9  


Queen 


Knight  J    8 
I   9 
Knave     10       Transition 

Ace  of  Pentacles 


)f  the  Scorpion 


2nd 
3rd 

1st  Decan  ^ 

2nd     — .      J-  of  the  Virgin 

3rd     —     J 

Epagomene 

1st  Decan  \ 

2nd     —      [-of  the  Balance 

3rd      —     J 

1st  Decan  \ 
2nd     —      [  oi 
3rd      — 

1st  Decan 

2nd     —      Y  of  Sagittarius 
3rd     — 
Epagomene 

1st  Decan 

—  2nd     —      \  of  Capricornus 

—  3rd      —     J 

—  1st  Decan  ^ 

—  2nd     —      V  of  Aquarius 

—  3rd      —     J 

—  1st  Decan  \ 

—  2nd     —      j-  of  the  Fishes 

—  3rd      —     J 
Transition  Epagomene 

Each  decan,  governing  ten  degrees  of  the  zodiacal  circle, 


incr   J 


I 


Queen 


238  THE   TAKOT. 

corresponds  to  a  certain  number  of  days  in  the  month. 
Consequently  each  card  in  the  minor  arcana,  corresponding 
to  a  decan,  represents  a  certain  fraction  of  the  year — 

Ace  of  Sceptres         21st  to  30th  of  March. 

2  _  31st  of  March  to  9  th  of  April. 

3  —  10th  to  19th  of  April,  etc. 

We  need  only  consult  the  figure  at  the  end  of  this  study 
of  the  astronomical  Tarot  to  see  which  days  correspond  to 
each  decan. 

This  is  the  basis  of  the  astrological  Tarot,  and  by  its 
cards  a  horoscope  can  be  drawn  out  ;  but  since  this  appli- 
cation lies  beyond  the  purely  scientific  field  to  which  we 
have  limited  ourselves,  we  must  not  dwell  upon  it  here. 

In  short,  our  minor  arcana  are  fully  represented  in  the 
astronomical  Tarot,  and  they  exactly  determine  the  limits 
in  which  move  the  planets,  that  we  have  still  to  consider. 


The  Planets. 

The  major  arcana  are  represented  in  this  application  of 
the  Tarot  by  the  septenary  of  the  planets  acting  upon  the 
three  worlds  (3x7  =  21). 

Each  zodiacal  sign  and  each  decan  is  governed  by  a 
planet,  and  the  connection  between  the  planets  and  these 
different  signs  is  indicated  upon  the  tableau  which  follows. 

This  tableau  enables  us  to  comprehend  all  the  work 
that  Christian1  and  Ely  Star2  accomplished  upon  Astrology. 
Moreover  it  indicates  the  astronomical  correspondence  of 

1  Christian,  Histoire  de  la  Magie,  Paris,  1854.     8vo. 

2  Ely  Star,  Les  Mystères  de  V Horoscope,  Paris,  Dentu,  1888.  18mo. 
(3fr.  50.) 


THE   ASTRONOMICAL   TAROT.  239 

every  card  in  the  Tarot.  Here  is  an  explanation  of  its 
construction — 

Here  the  four  figures  of  the  twenty-first  card  of  the 
Tarot  represent  the  four  seasons  of  the  year  and  the  four 
colours  of  the  Tarot. 

The  centre  of  the  twenty-first  card  responds  to  the 
seven  planets,  which  animate  the  yearly  system. 

Lastly,  the  Zodiacal  Ellipse  revolves  between  these 
two  terms,  and  it  contains  the  key  to  the  influence 
exercised  by  the  major  arcana  (the  planets)  over  the 
minor  arcana  (the  signs  and  decani). 

This  tableau  is  therefore  both  a  proof  of  the  accuracy  of 
our  system  of  explaining  the  Tarot,  and  also  a  magnificent 
key  to  the  Tarot  itself. 

(Consult  the  tableau.) 

We  shall  now  quote  two  extracts  from  La  Vaillant  (Les 
Rômes,  Histoire  des  Bohémiens),  which  demonstrate  the 
harmony  which  exists  between  our  deductions  and  the 
traditional  explanations  given  by  the  gypsies. 


SOME    OF    THE    GYPSY    TRADITIONS 

UPON   THE   ASTRONOMICAL   TAROT. 

The  21st  card,  entitled  the  Universe  or  Time,  is,  in  fact, 
the  time  of  the  temple  and  the  temple  of  time. 

It  represents  an  oval  crown  of  flowers,  divided  into  four 
by  four  lotus  flowers,  and  supported  by  the  four  symbolical 
heads,  which  St.  John  borrowed  from  Ezekiel,  and  the 
latter  from  the  cherubim  and  seraphim  of  Assyria  and 
Egypt, 

The  four  heads  are  those — 


240  THE   TAKOT. 

Of  the  Eagle.     The  symbol  of  the  East,  of  the  morning,  of  the 

equinox  of  spring. 

Of  the  Lion.  —  of  the  South,  and  of  the  solstice  of 

summer. 

Of  the  Bull.  —  of  the  Evening,  the  West,  and  of 

the  equinox  of  autumn. 

Of  the  Man.  —  of  the  Right,  the  North,  and  of 

the  solstice  of  winter. 

In  the  midst  of  this  crown,  the  symbol  of  the  egg  of  the 
world,  stands  a  nude  woman,  the  symbol  of  Eve;  one  of 
her  feet  is  raised,  symbolizing  the  flight  of  time  ;  and  she 
holds  two  wands  of  equal  length,  symbols  of  the  balance 
and  equilibrium  of  time,  of  the  justice  and  equity  of  men, 
of  the  equality  of  day  and  night,  of  man  and  woman. 

This  Eve  is  the  great  Mother  (Am  or  Ebe)  who  pours 
out  to  the  stars  the  men-gods  of  heaven,  and  to  men  the 
star-gods  of  earth,  the  nectar  and  ambrosia  of  immortality, 
the  shadow  and  light  of  eternity  (Aon),  of  which  the  crown 
which  surrounds  her  is  the  sea  or  the  ocean,  the  enclosure 
or  the  vase,  the  ark  or  the  vessel. 

This  symbol  is  not  new.  It  was  throughout  antiquity 
used  to  express  the  nature  of  the  Universe,  the  synthesis  of 
the  arcs  of  the  circle,  the  union  of  the  arches  of  the  sphere, 
which  the  Hebrews  made  into  the  ark  of  the  covenant,  the 
modification  of  the  ancient  coins  of  Crete,  which  took  this 
arch  of  the  world,  the  covenant  of  the  rainbows,  for  the 
'principle  of  justice  which  gives  it  its  name.  And,  in 
fact,  the  name  of  Kudas,  of  that  Ebee  of  Crete,  clearly 
expresses  justice,  sadulc,  which  makes  of  this  Melchi 
sedek,  the  spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  of  this  spirit  (Eon)  of 
the  sun,  the  law  of  the  times  of  the  stars,  of  the  life 
of  man;    consequently  Noah,   who  is  himself  the  spirit 


THE   ASTRONOMICAL  TAROT.  241 

{Eon)   of  eternity    {Aon)    of  centuries   (Aion),   has   been 
qualified  as  prœco  justitiœ,  revealer  of  justice. 

*     * 

The  Tarot  is  a  deduction  of  the  sidéral  book  of  Henoch, 
who  is  Henochia  ;  it  is  modelled  from  the  astral  wheel  of 
Athor,  which  is  As-taroth,  resembling  the  Indian  ot-tara, 
the  polar  bear  or  arc-tura  of  the  north  ;  it  is  the  major 
force  {tarie)  upon  which  is  based  the  solidity  {ferrale)  of 
the  world  and  the  sidéral  firmament  of  the  earth;  con- 
sequently, like  the  polar  bear,  called  the  chariot  of  the 
sun,  the  chariot  of  David  and  of  ARTHUR,  it  is  the  Greek 
'luck  {tuché),  the  Chinese  destiny  (fifed),  the  Egyptian 
chance  {tiki),  the  fate  {tika)  of  the  Romanies  ;  and  the 
stars,  as  they  incessantly  revolve  round  the  polar  bear, 
reveal  to  the  earth  ostentation  and  misery,  light  and 
shade,  heat  and  cold  ;  whilst  from  them  flow  the  good  and 
evil,  the  love  and  hatred,  which  form  the  happiness 
(ev-tuchié)  and  the  misfortune  {dis-tuchié)  of  men. 

* 

In  truth  Sephora  is  one  of  the  harmonies  in  that  triad 
s.  f.  r.,  which  united  form  the  light  {Sapher),  the  number 
{Sipher),  and  the  word  {Sephora)  of  the  Hebrews,  from  the 
Sphere  of  the  Universe.     From  this  sphere, 

of  which  the  light  is  the  truth, 

the    zodiac    the   book    which   contains   it,   the   stars  the 

numbers  and    letters  which  explain  it,  the  Anales   have 

drawn  their  Tara,  the  Gypsies  their  Tarot,  the  Phoenicians 

their    As-tharot,   the    Egyptians    their    Athor,    and    the 

Hebrews  their  Thora. 

R 


242  THE   TAROT. 

But  we  cannot  end  this  study  upon  the  astronomical 
Tarot  without  some  allusion  to  the  work  of  Oswald  Wirth 
upon  this  subject.  In  some  respects  his  conclusions  differ 
from  our  own  ;  but  we  are  anxious  on  that  account  to  copy 
his  essay  upon  it,  in  order  that  each  reader  ma)  judge 
between  us  for  himself. 


ESSAY  UPON   THE   ASTRONOMICAL  TAROT  BY 

OSWALD  WIRTH. 

According  to  Christian  the  twenty -two  major  arcana  of 
the  Tarot  represent  the  hieroglyphic  paintings  which  are 
found  in  the  spaces  between  the  columns  of  a  gallery, 
which  the  neophyte  was  obliged  to  cross  in  the  Egyptian 
initiations.  There  were  twelve  columns  to  the  North  and 
the  same  number  to  the  South,  that  is,  eleven  symbolical 
pictures  on  each  side.  These  pictures  were  explained  to 
the  candidate  for  initiation  in  regular  order,  and  they 
contained  the  rules  and  principles  for  the  Initiate. 

The  arcana  corresponding  to  the  twenty-two  letters  of 
the  Hebrew  alphabet  must  have  been  arranged  upon  the 
walls  of  the  secret  crypts  in  the  temples  of  Osiris  in 
the  following  order.     (See  p.  243.) 

This  opinion  is  confirmed  by  the  correspondence  which 
exists  between  the  arcana  when  they  are  thus  arranged. 

It  is  at  once  evident  that  the  arcana  2,  3,  4  and  5  form 
a  complete  group  ;  this  group  corresponds  to  another 
formed  by  the  arcana  21,  20,  19  and  18.  Now  in  the 
interpretation  of  the  symbols  each  arcanum  should  be 
studied  in  its  relations  with  the  neighbouring  arcana,  and 
particularly  with  those  which  are  pendant  to  it  in  the 
grouping  that  we  have  pointed  out.    For  instance,  the  2nd 


THE   ASTRONOMICAL   TAROT. 


243 


xsva 

^ 

n 

^ 

(M 

T—l 

E-  E  *-< 
l5^ 

_ 

^      ^ 

r 

o 

T— 1 

Fol 
o       = 

H 

n 

CO 

I— 1 

o 
A 

41 

£ 

2 

£ 

Ci 

o 

H 

o 

£ 

o 

o 

n 

CO 

I-Î 

D 

i— ( 

CD 

n 

*. 

o  ~  o  o 

#» 

*>• 

£ 

P\ 

i— 1 

3 

H-l 

t— 1 

H 

£ 

CO 

tf 

*~ 

to 

o 

CI 

i — 1 

-ÏJ 

O 

M 

ft 

, 

,. 

ÏZ 

o 

5* 

M 

CO 

I— 1 

o 
o 

o 

r 

^t< 

r^. 

1—4 

X 

^_, 

rx 

CO 

| 

r 

o 

CM 

tô 

V 

W 

1-3 

o 

S£  /3 

■x. 

n 

(M 

tp.çi 

r: 

t— I 

> 
►J 

- 

^ 

^ 

o 

^ 

X 

T-l 

SB 

à 

O 

"3 

li 

sa 

AV 

o 

CO 


244  THE   TAROT. 

arcanum  p),  the  High  Priestess,  should  not  only  be  com- 
pared with  the  1st  arcanum  (N),  the  Juggler,  the  3rd,  and 
4th  p),  the  Empress  ;  but  also  with  the  5th  arcanum  (H),  the 
Pope,  with  the  21st  (H),  the  Universe,  and  even  with  the 
18th  p),  the  Moon.  By  studying  each  of  the  twenty-two 
arcana  in  this  way,  we  shall  discover  that  the  whole  are 
closely  linked  together,  and  we  shall  acquire  unexpected 
light  upon  the  most  ancient  of  all  the  sacred  books  which 
we  possess. 

It  should  be  noticed  that  the  7th,  8th,  9th,  and  10th 
arcana  represent  a  quaternary,  to  which  a  last  group 
corresponds,  formed  of  the  16th,  15th,  14th,  and  13th 
arcana.  We  therefore  have  sixteen  pentacles  divided  into 
four  quaternaries,  which  give  a  definite  general  meaning. 
Six  other  pentacles  are  placed  in  pairs  at  the  commence- 
ment, the  centre,  and  the  end  of  the  double  series  of  the 
arcana  of  the  Tarot.  These  six  arcana  appear  to  frame  the 
others,  and  this  fact  gives  them  great  importance.  Their 
signification  is  easily  discovered  by  their  mutual  com- 
parison, and  the  judicious  application  of  the  laws  of  analogy 
supplied  by  the  keys  of  the  Book  of  Thoth,  as  well  as  by 
those  of  the  Eternal  Book  that  Nature,  symbolized  under 
the  form  of  Isis,  holds  half-opened  in  the  2nd  arcanum  p), 
the  High  Priestess. 

But  it  is  necessary  to  proceed  methodically  in  these 
researches,  by  means  of  a  progressive  analysis  starting 
from  the  whole,  before  we  can  grasp  each  arcanum  separ- 
ately, for  each  one  must  be  carefully  examined  under  the 
numerous  aspects  which  it  presents.  When  this  work  of 
dissection  is  once  accomplished,  the  student  must  retrace 
his  steps,  and  synthetically  recompose  the  whole  by  a 
reverse  operation. 

In  applying  these  principles  here,  we  must  first  repeat 


THE  ASTRONOMICAL  TAROT.  245 

that  the  Tarot  considered  as  a  whole  is  pre-eminently  the 
Sacred  Book  of  occult  initiation.  Now  we  attain  this 
initiation-  by  two  different  paths,  by  one  of  which  we 
develop  the  powers  which  we  innately  possess  to  their 
utmost  extent  ;  by  the  other  we  subdue  ourselves,  and  thus 
attain  a  state  of  being  which  renders  us  susceptible  to  the 
action  of  the  cosmic  forces  which  surround  us.  Although 
these  two  methods  differ  completely,  we  can  accomplish, 
this  great  work  by  following  either  of  them.  This  is  the 
meaning  of  the  Hermetic  precept,  "  that  the  philosopher's 
stone  can  be  prepared  by  the  dry  path  or  by  the  moist,  by 
the  red  dye  or  by  the  white."  Initiation,  androgynous  as  a 
whole,  is  therefore  subdivided  into  male  and  female.  It 
is  masculine  from  the  1st  (M)  to  the  11th  (p)  arcana,  and 
becomes  feminine  in  the  arcana  21  (p)  to  12  (v).  With 
regard  to  the  arcanum  0  Q&)t  which  is  unnumbered  in  the 
Tarot,  although  it  is  eminently  passive  in  itself,  it  must 
not  be  included  in  the  feminine  series,  for  reasons  easily 
discerned  in  the  study  of  the  exact  signification  of  each 
arcanum  taken  separately. 

Let  us  then  content  ourselves  for  the  moment  with 
asserting  that  masculine  or  Dorian  initiation  starts  from 
M  to  end  in  2,  whilst  feminine  or  Ionian  initiation  starts 
from  2?  to  end  in  7.  The  two  unite  and  complete  each 
other  in  the  androgynous  initiation,  which  can  start  from 
M  to  end  in  tP,  or  start  from  &  to  return  to  it  again,  after 
traversing  the  whole  series  of  the  arcana,  taking  their 
numbers  in  the  inverse  order. 

But  initiation  can  be  regarded  not  only  under  the 
double  aspect  of  activity  and  passivity  represented  by  the 
North  and  South,  but  it  can  be  also  contemplated  as  light 
and  life,  that  is  to  say,  as  the  intellectual  instruction  as 
well  as  the  moral  education  of  the  Initiate.     In  this  respect 


246  THE   TAROT. 

the  Tarot  is  divided  by  the  6th  arcanum  (V),  the  Lovers, 
and  the  17th  (S),  the  Stars,  into  two  parts,  which  represent 
the  West  and  the  East. 

This  double  division  produces  the  four  quaternaries  of 
which  we  have  already  spoken.  Each  represents  one 
especial  section,  its  general  sense  being  indicated  by  its 
orientation  ;  the  North -West  thus  corresponds  with  in- 
tellectual activity  ;  the  North-East  with  moral  activity  ; 
the  South-West  with  intellectual  passivity,  and  the  South- 
East  with  moral  passivity.  These  four  sections  are  also 
united  in  the  arcana  1  (M)  the  Juggler;  11  (3)  Strength; 
12  (V)  the  Hanged  Man;  and  0  (Œ)  the  Foolish  Man. 

The  6th  arcanum,  the  Lovers,  indicates  the  passage  of 
intellectual  activity  to  its  moral  application,  the  17th  s. 
The  stars  form  the  transition  between  passive  intellectu- 
ality and  its  practical  employment  in  the  exercise  of  the 
occult  powers. 

We  think  that  enough  has  been  now  said  to  enable  each 
student  to  discover  for  himself  the  complex  signification 
of  every  arcanum  in  the  Tarot.  We  will  therefore  end 
this  sketch  by  some  classifications,  intended  to  prove  that 
the  order  in  which  we  arrange  the  arcana  of  the  Tarot 
does  not  form   a  purely  arbitrary  system. 

It  will,  in  fact,  be  easily  seen  that  connection  in  their 
opposition  links  the  arcana  when  they  are  grouped  in 
four  quaternaries  of  different  formation  from  the  four  first, 
which  we  have  already  examined.     (See  p.  247.) 

The  analogy  of  these  significations  is  particularly 
striking  between  the  arcana  7  and  16,  10  and  13,  which 
yet  present  an  antagonistic  meaning,  as  soon  as  7  is 
compared  with  16,  and  10  with  13.  It  is  the  same  with 
the  other  quaternaries  represented  here,  although  the  fact 
may  be  less  visible  at  the  first  glance.     But  we  will  now 


THE  ASTRONOMICAL  TAROT. 


247 


leave  a  free  field  to  individual  investigation  on  this  point, 
and  pass  on  to  the  study  of  the  Tarot  from  another  point 
of  view. 


1 
3 

n 

3 

1 

2 

5 

3 

4 

High 
Priestess 

Pope 

Empress 

Emperor 

n 

S 

I 

P 

21 

18 

20 

19 

World 

Moon 

Judgment 

Sun 

Ï 

•s 

n 

Û 

7 

10 

8 

9 

Chariot 

Wheel  of 
Fortune 

Justice 

Hermit 

V 

0 

D 

3 

16 

13 

15 

14 

Lightning- 
struck  Tower 

Death 

Devil 

Temperance 

The  22  major  arcana  of  the  Tarot  compared  to  the  figures 
representing  the  constellations  upon  the  celestial  sphere, 
according  to  the  Greek  and  Egyptian  planisphères. 

The  Tarot  which  we  possess  represents  a  series  of  sym- 
bolical images  adapted  to  the  ideology  of  the  fourteenth 


248  THE   TAROT. 

century,  and  fixed  by  the  invention  of  xylography.  It  is 
impossible  for  us  to  retrace  through  the  darkness  of  the 
middle  ages  the  origin  of  the  twenty-two  significative 
figures  known  as  atouts,  in  the  pack  of  seventy-eight  cards 
by  which  the  Gypsies  claim  to  reveal  the  secrets  of  fate. 

Still  it  has  been  proved  that  the  major  arcana  of  the 
Tarot  are  disfigured  reproductions  of  a  primitive  model 
dating  from  the  earliest  ages.  It  would  be  difficult  to 
refind  this  model  in  its  original  purity  ;  and  if  it  were 
possible  to  do  so  it  could  only  be  through  judicious  study 
of  every  manifestation  of  symbolism  throughout  the 
history  of  Oriental  mythologies.  They  have  bequeathed 
to  us  an  hieroglyphic  monument  of  immense  importance 
in  the  representative  figures  of  the  signs  of  the  Zodiac, 
and  of  the  constellations  of  the  celestial  Sphere.  But 
it  would  be  most  interesting  if  we  could  prove  that  these 
allegorical  figures  absolutely  reproduce  the  22  major 
arcana  of  the  Tarot.  From  this  affinity  we  might  obtain 
great  light  upon  the  genesis  of  human  knowledge.  For 
the  same  identity  of  origin  which  manifestly  unites  the 
plates  of  the  Book  of  Thoth  to  the  subdivisions  of  the 
Greek  and  Egyptian  planispheres,  leads  to  the  conclusion 
that  in  both  cases  we  possess  a  special  adaptation,  made  from 
documents  which  we  have  not  yet  found,  but  which  may  still 
give  us  complete  information  respecting  primitive  India. 

In  any  case  the  arcana  of  the  Tarot  explain  many  of  the 
anomalies  in  Greek  mythology.  We  cannot  now  enter 
into  any  minute  details  upon  this  subject,  for  it  would 
lead  us  beyond  the  limits  of  this  book.  We  must  content 
ourselves  with  giving  the  reader  a  tableau  indicating  the 
constellations  which  appear  to  correspond  with  the  22 
major  arcana  of  the  Tarot,  and  therefore  with  the  22  letters 
of  the  Hebrew    alphabet,  although  their  correspondence 


THE   ASTRONOMICAL   TAROT. 


249 


with  the  latter  is  much  less  clearly  defined.  We  will  then 
trace  a  planisphere  grouping  the  arcana  of  the  Tarot 
according  to  the  order  of  the  constellations,  and  we  will 
end  by  a  pentacle  in  the  form  of  a  double  hexagram,  in 
which  the  Hebrew  letters  will  represent  the  signs  of  the 
zodiac,  and  the  circumpolar  constellations  to  which  they 
correspond,  according  to  our  first  tableau. 


OSWALD  WIRTH'S  TABLEAU. 


< 

to   . 

O  O 

'A  tf 
<  < 

?  S 

0  a 
.  o 

to 

(Z3 

to  « 
BE) 

to  « 

o  ^ 

S  S 

DENOMINATION  OF 
THE  ARCANA. 

CONSTELLATIONS. 

1 

X 

The  Juggler 

Orion— The  Bull 

2 

3 

The  High  Priestess 

Cassiopeia 

3 

J 

The  Empress 

The  Virgin 

4 

n 

The  Emperor 

Hercules,  Lyra  and  Boreal  Crown 

5 

n 

The  Pope 

The  Ram 

6 

i 

The  Lovers 

Eagle,  Antinous,  and  Sagittarius 

7 

T 

The  Chariot 

Great  Bear 

8 

n 

Justice 

The  Balance 

9 

tt 

The  Hermit 

The  Ox-Driver 

10 

1 

The  Wheel  of  Fortune 

Capricornus  (opposed  to  Sirius) 

11 

3 

Strength 

Lion  (and  Virgin) 

12 

i 

The  Hanged  Man 

Perseus 

13 

D 

Death 

Dragon  of  the  Pole 

14 

: 

Temperance 

Aquarius 

15 

D 

The  Devil 

Goat  and  Coachman 

16 

y 

The  Lightning-struck  Tower 

Scorpion,  Ophiuchus 

17 

D 

The  Stars 

Andromeda,  the  Fishes 

18 

¥ 

The  Moon 

Cancer,  Sirius,  and  Procion 

19 

P 

The  Sun 

The  Twins 

20 

n 

The  Judgment 

The  Swan 

21 

n 

The  Universe 

Lesser  Bear  and  Pole  Star 

22 

£> 

The  Foolish  Man 

Cepheus 

25a 


THE   TAROT. 


PLANISPHERE, 

ACCORDING    TO    THE    DATA    OF    THE    PRECEDING    TABLEAU,    BY 

OSWALD  WIETH. 


14 

10 

6 

Temperance 

Wheel  of 
Fortune 

The  Lovers 

Aquarius 

Capricornus 

Sagittarius 

17 

2 

0 

20 

16 

Stars 

The  High 
Priestess 

The  Foolish 
Man 

The  Judgment 

The  Lightning- 
struck  Tower 

The  Fishes 

Cassiopeia 

Cepheus 

The  Swan 

Scorpion 

5 

12 

21 

13 

4 

8 

The  Pope 

The  Hanged 
Man 

The  Universe 

Death 

The  Emperor 

Justice 

The  Rain 

Perseus 

Pole  Star 

Dragon 

Hercules 

The  Balance 

1 

15 

7 

9 

3 

Juggler 

Devil 

The  Chariot 

The  Hermit 

The  Empress 

Bull 

The  Coachman 

Great  Bear 

The  Ox-Driver 

Virgin 

19 

18 

11 

Sun 

Moon 

Strength 

— 

— 

— 

Twins 

Cancer 

Lion 

THE   ASTRONOMICAL   TAROT.  251 


Pentacle  of  Oswald  Wirth. 

Signs  of  the  Zodiac  and  Circumpolar  Constellations. 
Affinities  with  the  Tarot. 


To  face  paye  252. 


tv 


*  Afi1 


H3BW303O 


!<** 


"6    X 


3 


^W  "* 


Ninu»i|ii*««  ~««c„ 

**"  J 

JAVUd                                        1 

R*M     o*-     ACE 

1      ><  sntlV^- 

u 

r-^\ 


k:      *°/        V 


c 


"'"i"'-"" 


"  "i~ 


*1\V 


*AV 


[<JU£Cn1 


VI 


J     CANCER!      or      J  J^>        , 


w>. 


w 


'ONE 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

THE   INITIATIVE   TAROT. 

Ch.  Barlet's  Essay  on  this  Subject— Involution  and  Evolution— The 
Hours  of  Apollonius  of  Tyana— The  Phases  of  Initiation  re- 
presented by  the  Tarot. 

The  Initiative  Tarot. 

APPLICATION    OF    THE    TAROT    TO    THE    THEORETICAL    AND 
PRACTICAL   DOCTRINES    OF    INITIATION. 

Our  friend  F.  Ch.  Barlet  has  written  a  very  interesting 
article  upon  this  subject,  which  we  will  quote  in  extenso. 
Our  readers  will  then  see  the  exactitude  with  which  his 
conclusions  harmonize  with  our  own. 


INITIATION. 


Amongst  the  ancients  the  scientific  men  were  also  the 
sages,  such  as  Pythagoras,  Plato,  Aristotle  ;  in  modern  times, 
on  the  contrary,  science  and  wisdom  are  unsuccessfully 
seeking  for  each  other,  or  struggling  in  mortal  conflict 
over  the  religious  question.  That  such  a  separation 
is  against  nature  is  easily  seen  by  the  study  of  those 
Positivist    philosophers    whose     extensive    learning   and 


254  THE   TAROT. 

admirable  efforts  to  build  up  a  synthesis  of  scientific 
wisdom  merit  high  rank  in  the  modern  intellectual  world. 
Whilst  their  fundamental  aphorism  is  that  nothing  is 
attainable  by  man  beyond  the  world  of  phenomena,  their 
works  display  an  increasing  though  unintentional  tendency 
to  cross  the  limits  which  they  seek  to  impose  upon 
themselves,  for  they  are  led  by  that  nature  which  they 
love,  and  which  in  its  final  manifestations  they  know 
better  than  any  one  else.  We  may  compare  them  to 
insects  imprisoned  behind  a  window  ;  in  despair  they  beat 
themselves  against  the  glass,  clearly  seeing  the  sunbeam 
which  should  lead  them  to  the  source  of  all  li^ht,  yet 
unable  to  follow  it  beyond  the  invisible  wall  of  their 
prison.  On  the  other  hand,  the  Spiritualists  are  outside, 
free,  and  as  it  were  lost  in  the  luminous  ocean,  wandering 
without  a  compass,  unable  to  find  the  guiding  sunbeam 
which  is  the  despair  of  the  Positivists. 

However,  one  school  exists  which  promises  to  guide 
the  one,  to  free  the  other,  and  to  direct  each  student 
towards  the  centre  of  Truth  so  ardently  desired  ;  an 
unknown  school,  little  frequented,  like  every  transcendent 
degree,  although  its  masters  have  always  given  proofs  of 
considerable  learning — the  school  of  Theosophy,  a  positive 
spiritualism  preserved  for  ages  in  the  ancient  mysteries, 
transmitted  with  more  or  less  purity  by  the  Kabbalists, 
Mystics,  Templars,  Rosicrucians,  and  Freemasons,  often 
degenerate,  like  every  other  doctrine  prematurely  divulged, 
yet  hidden  at  the  root  of  every  religion,  and  carefully  per- 
petuated in  a  few  unknown  sanctuaries,  chiefly  situated 
in  India. 

The  secret  of  Theosophy,  in  the  reconciliation  between 
science  and  metaphysics,  lies  in  a  certain  practical  develop- 
ment of  those  human  faculties  which  are  best  fitted  to 


THE   INITIATIVE   TAROT.  255 

extend  the  limits  of  reliable  knowledge.     Let  us  first  try 
to  understand  this  possibility. 

An  attentive  examination  of  any  scientific  method, 
however  positive  it  may  be,  proves  that  there  is  no 
evidence  or  certainty  save  in  axioms,  and  that  the  fragile 
and  changeable  scaffolding  of  our  sciences,  built  upon  this 
immovable  basis,  is  entirely  due  to  intuition,  of  which 
observation  and  experience  are  only  instruments. 

But  the  field  of  direct  perception  in  which  intuition 
exerts  itself  is  capable  of  extension;  this  fact  is  now 
demonstrated  by  the  phenomena  of  hypnotism  and 
magnetism,  the  torments  of  our  modern  sciences  ;  for  by 
them  the  limits  of  opaque  matter,  of  space  and  time,  are 
suppressed  in  variable  but  incontestable  degrees. 

But  still,  in  this  realm  of  transcendental  faculties  the 
perception  is  not  always  so  reliable  as  the  unvarying 
certainty  which  characterizes  an  axiom  ;  for  amongst  the 
hypnotizable  or  magnetizable  subjects,  the  material  lucidity 
presents  a  number  of  gradations  which  are  reproduced 
in  the  intellectual  order,  and  which  vary  between  the 
fancies  of  a  disordered  imagination  and  the  sublime 
revelations  of  healthily  inspired  genius. 

We  do  not  therefore  exceed  the  possibilities  given  by 
the  reliable  evidence  of  observation  and  experience,  when 
we  assert  that  the  physical  or  intellectual  perception  of 
the  human  being  is  capable  of  extending  beyond  the 
limits  of  ordinary  judgments  and  sensations;  and  that 
in  the  transcendental  regions  which  it  can  attain  it  is 
susceptible  of  more  or  less  certitude  in  its  impressions. 
This  assertion  opens  new  fields  for  human  knowledge,  an 
hierarchy  of  new  immediate  causes,  and  the  prospect  of 
an  indefinite  progress  in  science. 

Now    Theosophy    inspires    man    with    the    enthusiasm 


256  THE   TAROT. 

which  enables  him  to  draw  near  to  these  transcendent 
regions  of  perception,  whilst  it  guards  him  from  illusion, 
through  the  forces  and  the  new  beings  which  he  will 
meet  there  :  it  is  this  instruction  which  constitutes 
Initiation. 

The  slight  sketch  which  will  now  follow  will  at  least 
give  some  idea  of  the  principles  by  which  Religion  and 
Philosophy,  Wisdom  and  Science,  are  united  in  Theosophy. 
Any  defects  which  the  reader  may  find  in  it  must  be 
attributed  to  want  of  skill  on  the  part  of  the  student 
who  has  undertaken  it. 

* 
*     * 

Initiation  comprises  two  different  but  united  sections. 
The  Theory  of  the  resources  and  necessities  of  his  enter- 
prise, which  the  neophyte  always  receives  as  an  inheritance 
which  leaves  him  absolute  liberty  of  thought — and  the 
Practice  in  which  he  exercises,  under  the  direction  of 
his  masters,  the  physical,  intellectual,  and  moral  self- 
control  which  will  render  him  an  Initiate. 

The  Theory,  the  primary  instruction  of  Theosophy,  is 
a  preliminary  definition,  consisting  almost  exclusively  of 
the  contents  of  the  Theosophical  publications  ;  but  a 
student  should  not  fancy  himself  one  of  the  Initiate 
because  he  possesses  these  public  works  ;  the  knowledge 
of  them  is  an  excellent  preparation,  but  nothing  more. 

This  theory  is  found  scattered  throughout  a  number  of 
more  or  less  well-known  and  accessible  books  ;  but  there 
are  very  few  of  them  which  explain  it  as  a  whole,  simply 
and  methodically  enough  to  satisfy  a  beginner.  This 
first  difficulty,  chiefly  due  to  the  actual  state  of  many 
minds,  which    will   not   admit   regular   instruction,   also 


THE   INITIATIVE   TAROT.  257 

corresponds  to  the  numerous  varieties  of  intelligence  which 
examine  them.  Some,  previously  opened  to  theosophical 
doctrines,  approach  every  detail  with  equal  profit  to 
themselves  ;  others,  on  the  contrary,  who  cannot  at  first 
accept  them  as  a  whole,  willingly  examine  them  by 
means  of  a  secondary  door  which  especially  suits  them, 
but  which  often  forces  them  to  make  enormous  digressions 
through  our  sciences  and  philosophies.  The  first  steps 
are  consequently  very  varied,  and  they  require  guidance 
from  some  more  advanced  brother,  who  is  capable  of 
discerning  the  intellectual  and  moral  state  of  the 
neophyte. 

This  is  why  no  work  on  the  subject  can  be  especially 
recommended  here.  An  excellent  bibliography  of  theo- 
sophic  works  will  be  found  in  the  Traité  Elémentaire  de 
Science  Occulte,  by  Papus.  We  now  add  to  it  an  excellent 
list  of  a  series  of  studies,  long  but  reliable,  which  will 
form  a  gradual  transition  from  Positivism  to  Theosophy  : 

For  facts.  Study:  Richet,  d'Assier,  Liebault,  Philipps, 
Dupotet,  Reichenbach,  Mesmer,  &c. 

Hypothesis  of  the  whole  :  Comte,  Stuart  Mill,  Bain, 
Ribot,  Spencer,  Taine,  &c. 

Philosophers:  Du  Prel,  Hartmann,  Schopenhauer,  Hegel. 
Great  profit  can  then  be  derived  from  older  works  : 
Spinoza,  Leibnitz,  and  even  from  the  ancients  :  Aristotle, 
Plato,  the  Neoplatonists,  the  Pythagorists  ;  then  the 
modern  mystic  scientists  :  Wronski,  Fabre  d'Olivet, 
Lucas,  &c. 

The  student  will  then  fully  understand  Theosophy. 

This  series  will,  however,  require  further  modifications, 
according  to  the  character  and  the  scientific  aptitudes  of 
the  student.  We  must  also  point  out  some  features  of 
the  theory,  which  are  necessary  for  the  comprehension  of 


258  THE   TAROT. 

our  principal  subject  ;  the  reader  must  only  remember 
that  this  explanation  is  entirely  due  to  the  author  of  this 
article,  and  he  must  not  impute  any  of  its  errors  to 
Theosophy  itself. 

*     * 

Our  positive  sciences  give  the  last  formula  of  the  visible 
world  in  the  following  words — 

There  is  no  matter  tuithout  force  :  no  force  without  matter. 

An  indisputable  but  incomplete  formula,  unless  the 
following  commentary  be  added  to  it — 

1.  The  combination  of  what  we  call  Force  and  Matter 
presents  itself  in  various  proportions,  from  that  which 
is  called  materialized  Force  (rocks,  minerals,  simple 
chemical  bodies),  to  subtilized  Hatter  or  Matter-Force 
(a  grain  of  pollen,  spermatozoid,  the  electric  atom). 
Matter  and  Force,  although  we  cannot  isolate  them,  there- 
fore present  themselves  as  the  extreme  and  opposing 
mathematical  limits  (or  contrary  signs)  of  a  series  of 
which  we  see  only  a  few  medium  terms,  abstract  but 
indubitable. 

2.  The  terms  of  this  series,  that  is  to  say,  the  substances 
of  nature,  are  never  stable  ;  Force,  which  is  characterized 
by  infinite  mobility,  sways  essentially  inert  matter  from 
one  pole  to  the  other,  as  though  it  were  drawn  by  a 
continual  current,  while  it  retorts  by  a  counter-current, 
which  leads  it  back  to  its  inert  condition.  For  instance, 
an  atom  of  phosphorus  borrowed  by  a  vegetable  from  the 
mineral  phosphates,  becomes  the  element  of  a  human 
cerebral  cellule  (subtilized  matter),  then  through  dis- 
integration falls  back  into  the  inert  mineral  kingdom. 

3.  The  movement  resulting  from  this  unstable  equili- 


THE   INITIATIVE   TAROT.  259 

briu m  is  not  disorganized  ;  it  presents  a  series  of  chained 
harmonies  which  we  call  Laws,  and  which  are  synthetized 
in  our  eyes  in  the  supreme  law  of  Evolution. 

One  conclusion  is  forced  upon  us  :  This  harmonious 
synthesis  of  phenomena  is  the  eminent  manifestation  of 
what  we  call  a  will. 

Therefore,  according  to  positive  science,  the  visible 
world  is  the  expression  of  a  will  which  manifests  itself 
by  the  unstable  but  progressive  equilibrium  of  Force  and 
Matter. 

It  is  represented  by  this  quaternary — 

I.  Will  (simple  origin). 

III.  Force  (Elements  of  this  polarized  Will).     II.  Matter. 

IV.  The  Visible  World 

(The  result  of  their  unstable,  dynamic  equilibrium). 

The  positive  method  will  not  allow  us  to  pause  there, 
we  must  analyze  the  Will  in  its  turn.  We  will  abridge 
this  analysis  here,  for  the  reader  will  easily  master  it  with 
the  aid  of  the  treatises  on  psychology;  it  leads  through 
the  two  opposing  terms  of  affirmation  and  negation  to  a 
new  superior,  apparently  simple  cause,  the  Idea,  which 
analysis  again  decomposes  into  consciousness  and  un- 
consciousness, gradually  remounting  to  its  furthest  limit, 
the  absolute  term,  the  One,  both  conscious  and  uncon- 
scious, affirmative  and  negative,  force  and  matter,  name- 
less, incomprehensible  to  man. 

Let  us  designate  this  supreme  term  by  A,  and  the 
material  atom  by  12,  we  shall  then  have,  according  to  our 
analysis,  the  following  series  of  hierarchized  quaternaries 
as  a  representation  of  the  Universe — 


260  THE  TAROT. 


+  (1)    A  - 

(3)   Consciousness  (2)     Unconscious- 
ness 
(4)  Idea 
(6)  Affirmation     (5)  Negation 

(7)  Will 
(9)  Force  (8)  Matter 

(10)  Kosmos 
£2 


Divine  World 
(The  Transcendent) 

Intelligible  World 
(Logic) 

Visible  World 
(Positive  Science) 


The  extreme  terms,  a  and  co,  Spirit  and  Matter,  equally 
incomprehensible  to  human  intelligence  in  their  infinite 
grandeur  and  infinite  littleness,1  are  not  only  linked 
together  by  invariable  intermediate  chains,  but  they  also 
make  an  incessantly  descending  movement  from  one  to 
the  other,  in  which  the  Spirit  becomes  Matter  by  the 
successive  disintegrations  which  express  the  Idea,  the  Will, 
and  Kosmos.     This  constitutes  the  creation. 

But  since,  as  our  sciences  prove  to  us,  the  Kosmos  itself 
is  in  a  state  of  evolutive  movement,  and  since  according 
to  their  teachings  this  movement  clearly  inclines  towards 
a  progressive  synthesis,  which  spiritualizes  the  living 
being  by  entering  more  and  more  into  its  composition, 
the  preceding  scheme  expresses  but  one  half  of  the 
Universe,  the  one  which  descends.  We  must  now  add  to 
it  a  second  half,  which  restores  the  atom,  œ,  to  its  opposing 
principle  a,  through  the  progressive  synthesis  of  individual 
lives.     This  is  Progress,  the  sequence  of  Creation. 

Thus  the  Universe  appears  to  us  like  a  circular  current, 
in  which  the  flow  is  necessarily  inverse  in  the  two  opposing 
arcs  :  from  the  positive  pole  a  to  the  negative  pole  «o  the 

1  The  first  a,  One  and  infinitely  great  ;  integration  of  Q.  The 
second  o>,  a  multiple  composed  of  an  infinite  number  of  infinitely 
tiny  elements  ;  analysis  of  a. 


THE   INITIATIVE  TAROT.  261 

current  descends — this  is  Involution,  the  descent  of  the 
Spirit  into  Matter  ;  from  the  negative  pole  co  to  the  posi- 
tive pole  a  the  current  re-ascends— this  is  Evolution,  the 
spiritualization  of  Matter.     We  shall  describe  it  presently. 


Let  us  then  infer  for  man — 

The  evidence  of  our  sciences  shows  him  to  be  upon 
the  ascending  arc,  already  far  from  the  negative  pole, 
since  he  is  at  the  head  of  the  three  kingdoms  of  the 
terrestrial  world.  He  thus  belongs  to  the  visible  world  of 
the  Universe  ;  the  imposing  monument  of  science  is  a 
proof  of  the  position  which  he  also  occupies  in  the 
intellectual  world;  but  at  the  same  time  his  errors,  his 
doubts,  the  enormous  deficiencies  in  his  knowledge,  and 
his  passions,  sufficiently  prove  that  he  is  no  longer  master 
in  this  sphere,  as  he  is  in  the  inferior  world.  As  to  the 
divine  world,  he  conceives  it,  presses  towards  it;  but  if 
he  attain  it,  it  will  be  by  faith  rather  than  by  science. 

Man  is  then  a  being  who  in  his  re-ascension  has  reached 
the  middle  region,  and  even  the  centre  of  that  region  ; 
his  place  is  in  the  centre  of  the  ascending  arc,  between 
the  superior  and  the  inferior  beings  of  creation,  ruling 
the  one,  ruled  by  the  others,  midway  between  the  Angel 
and  the  Beast.  A  situation  inevitably  painful  through 
the  equality  of  the  two  opposing  forces,  which  retard  his 
ascension  ;  he  has  come  to  a  dead  stop,  which  must  be 
overcome  by  a  special  effort. 

At  the  present  time  Initiation  is  the  instrument  which 
facilitates  the  development  of  the  human  butterfly.  We 
shall  soon  understand  of  what  it  consists. 


* 
*     * 


262  THE   TAROT. 

The  Ancients,  with  the  usual  force  of  their  synthetic 
genius,  have  symbolized  the  whole  of  Involution  and 
Evolution  by  a  sequence  of  twenty-two  figures,  full  of 
hidden  significations,  which  the  occultists  name  the 
Twenty-two  Great  Arcana. 

Taking  the  ten  first  as  a  description  of  Involution,  we 
find  in  the  others  the  successive  phases  of  Initiation,  such 
as  they  are  depicted  in  the  twelve  hours  (or  sentences) 
which  form  the  Nuctemeron  attributed  to  Apollonius  of 
Tyana.     These  we  shall  now  enumerate. 

To  be  perfectly  clear  we  must  first  return  to  Evolution 
for  one  moment. 

In  fact  its  analysis  is  not  completed  by  the  ten  terms 
which  have  led  us  to  the  Kosmos,  the  dynamic  equilibrium 
of  Force  and  Matter.  This  Kosmos  can  be  analyzed  in  its 
turn  as  two  principles  which,  according  to  all  the  sciences, 
are  conflicting  in  every  movement  of  matter  :  the  Active 
and  Passive  (male  and  female  of  organizations,  acid  and 
basis  of  chemistry,  the  opposing  poles  of  electricity,  &c). 
Completely  inert  matter  is  only  found  in  their  absolute 
equilibrium  in  the  unsiezable  pole  exactly  opposed  to  the 
a — the  co  of  the  Universe. 

The  occultists  have  represented  this  4th  tetractys,  of 
which  the  Kosmos  is  the  first  term  (the  tetractys  of  the 
inferior  world,  infera,  hell),  by  the  11th,  12th,  and  13th 
arcana,  the  Kosmos  being  its  first  term.  The  arcanum 
which  bears  the  generally  dreaded  number  13  requires 
further  notice.  It  is  called  Death  and  Resurrection, 
and  it  represents  absolute  Inertia,  only  found  in  Death  ; 
but  here  Involution  stops  and  Evolution  commences,  for 
the  equilibrium  of  the  two  principles,  active  and  passive, 
is  never  prolonged. 

This  would  seem  to  contradict  the  preceding  remark, 


THE   INITIATIVE   TAROT.  263 

that  the  description  of  Initiation,  that  is  to  say,  of  the 
re-ascension,  opens  with  the  10th  arcanum,  and  not  with 
the  14th.  This  however  is  not  so,  because  in  Involution 
the  being  should  retrace  in  an  inverse  sense,  to  complete 
the  synthesis,  every  stage  by  which  the  a  has  been  dis- 
integrated in  the  course  of  its  Involution.  Man  is  the 
actual  result  of  a  work  of  this  kind  anterior  to  his  present 
state,  but  of  this  work  which  has  raised  him  from  the  w 
to  the  stage  of  Will  he  is  quite  unconscious;  at  first  he 
was  subjected  to  it  under  the  fatal  pressure  of  pure  Force 
only,  then  of  instinct,  desires,  and  passions;  his  previous 
evolution  is  therefore  unknown  to  him,  and  yet  how  can 
he  master  any  of  these  worlds  without  knowing  them  all  ? 
His  first  work  in  Initiation  must  therefore  be  to  re-descend 
to  his  first  steps  in  Evolution,  to  become  acquainted  with 
all  the  degrees,  all  the  forces,  and  all  the  beings  that  he 
has  passed  through,  to  penetrate  the  roots  of  life  to  death 
itself,  and  to  learn  to  dominate  them  all. 

We  shall  see  presently  that  this  is  not  a  figurative 
assertion;  the  Neophyte  cannot  attain  any  reliable  voluntary 
exercise  of  the  transcendental  faculties  without  first  obtain- 
ing the  mastery  over  the  forces  which  would  produce 
illusion,  which  would  threaten  his  life  itself;  without 
reaching  Inertia  and  conquering  it.  Like  the  Christ,  the 
model  of  regenerate  man,  he  must  expire  upon  the  cross 
and  rise  again  the  third  day;  that  is  to  say,  after 
descending  the  three  last  steps  represented  by  the  11th, 
12th,  and  13th  arcana,  into  the  depths  of  hell,  there  to 
discover  Death  and  to  overcome  him. 

This  fully  understood,  we  will  describe  the  twelve  hours 
or  phases  of  Initiation. 

* 


264  THE   TAKOT. 

The  10th  arcanum,  the  first  hour  of  the  series,  corre- 
sponds with  the  stage  which  man  has  reached  at  the 
present  time.  The  symbol  of  this  arcanum  is  the  Sphinx, 
which  guarded  the  entrance  to  the  Egyptian  world  ;  the 
Neophyte  descended  between  its  paws  into  the  tunnel 
which  led  to  the  sanctuary,  through  a  series  of  tests,  the 
image  and  noviciate  of  the  descent  which  we  have  just 
mentioned. 

This  is  then  the  hour  of  preparation  ;  it  separates  the 
common  life  from  the  transcendental  life  ;  in  it  the 
student  learns  the  work  that  he  must  undertake,  and 
prepares  himself  for  it.     Let  us  see  in  what  way. 

The  human  head  of  the  Sphinx,  the  centre  of  the 
intelligence,  says  to  the  Neophyte  :  "  First  acquire  the 
Knowledge  which  shows  the  goal,  and  lights  the  way  to 
it."     This  is  the  theoretic  instruction  mentioned  above. 

Its  bull's  thighs,  the  image  of  the  rough,  persevering 
labour  of  the  agriculturist,  say  to  him  :  "  Be  strong  and 
patient  in  thy  work." 

Its  lion's  paws  say  to  him:  "Thou  must  brave  all,  and 
defend  thyself  against  every  inferior  force." 

Its  eagle's  wings  say  to  him  :  "  Thou  must  will  to  raise 
thyself  towards  the  transcendent  regions,  which  thy  soul 
already  approaches." 

The  riddle  attributed  to  the  Greek  Sphinx,  and  the 
answer  required  for  it,  are  an  equally  expressive  image 
of  man,  and  his  aim.  He  is  the  animal  that  in  the 
morning  (that  is  to  say,  in  the  infancy  of  humanity) 
goes  on  four  feet  (4  being  the  number  of  realization, 
expresses  matter  and  its  instincts,  the  visible  world)  ;  at 
noon  (that  is  to  say,  in  the  maturity  of  his  humanity) 
he  walks  upon  two  feet  (2,  the  number  of  opposition,  the 
image  of  science,  of  its  contradictions,  its  doubts,  and  of 


THE   INITIATIVE   TAROT.  265 

the  intelligible  world)  ;  and  in  the  evening  (when  the  day 
is  nearly  over)  walks  upon  three  feet  (3,  the  number  of 
the  divine  world,  in  which  the  Trinity  gives  the  solution 
of  all  the  oppositions,  of  all  the  antinomies,  by  the  superior 
term,  the  harmonious  synthesis  of  the  two  adverse  terms). 

Apollonius  describes  the  same  hour  in  these  words  : 
"  Here  the  Neophyte  praises  God,  utters  no  injurious  words, 
inflicts  no  more  pain,"  which  means  that  his  theoretic 
knowledge  of  the  Creation  is  increased,  and  that  he 
practises  self-control.  We  will  now  pause  and  examine 
the  consistency  of  these  various  prescriptions. 

We  have  seen  that  man,  having  reached  the  ascending 
arc,  has  become  the  object  of  dispute  between  the  inferior 
forces  of  inertia,  which  he  has  traversed  under  the  im- 
pulse of  instinct,  and  those  active  forces  which  draw 
him  upwards;  we  have  noticed  that  the  struggle  must 
now  be  decided  by  the  intervention  of  the  Will,  sufficiently 
developed  by  Evolution,  and  sufficiently  free  to  exert  its 
influence  on  one  side  or  on  the  other  :  man  can  therefore 
decide  either  for  the  inferior  forces  of  disintegration,  or 
for  the  superior  ones  of  synthesis,  under  the  names  of 
Good  and  Evil.  And  truly  evil  for  him  if  he  redescend, 
for  he  will  meet  the  terrors  of  decomposition,  of  Death. 
Good,  on  the  other  hand,  if  he  ascend,  for  he  will  enjoy 
the  realization  of  his  natural  aspirations,  the  knowledge 
of  the  Creation  and  dominion  over  it. 

Now  where  is  the  index  of  the  forces  of  inertia  in  the 
human  organization  ? — In  instinct,  in  the  passions.  Where, 
on  the  other  hand,  is  the  index  of  the  active  forces  ? — In 
moral  energy,  in  Virtue. 

Where  is  the  index  of  the  forces  of  disintegration,  which 
lead  to  inertia  in  the  human  organization  ? — In  the 
tendency  to  isolation,  in  egoism.      Where,  on  the  other 


266  THE   TAROT. 

hand,  is  the  index  of  the  integrant  forces  ? — In  the 
tendency  to  joint  responsibility,  to  altruism,  in  Fraternity. 

The  transcendent  world  is  therefore  open  to  whoever 
has  sufficient  Will  (or  even  artificial  impulsion)  to 
triumph  over  the  forces  which  guard  it  ;  but  woe  to  that 
man  who  approaches  it  with  a  passionate  and  selfish 
heart;  with  lowered  head  he  will  fall  back  into  the 
current  of  decomposition,  where  he  will  be  dissolved. 
Mature  destroys  all  Evil;   it  is  the   law  of  selection! 

Only  the  man  whose  heart  is  full  of  charity  can  raise 
himself  to  the  true  destination  of  the  human  being  in  the 
region  of  Principles. 

This  is  why  the  Sphinx  prescribes,  with  the  persevering 
will  of  the  Bull,  the  courage  of  the  Lion  against  the 
forces  of  the  passions  ;  and  why  Apollonius  commands 
reserve  and  fraternity,  with  the  Gospels  which  place  self- 
control  at  the  foundation  of  all  Law. 

Such  then,  with  the  aid  of  knowledge,  is  the  preparation 
for  Initiation  ;  we  shall  soon  see  the  importance  of  these 
precepts. 

*      * 

The  Neophyte,  sufficiently  exercised  in  these  pre- 
liminaries of  the  first  hour,  then  descends  the  three  lower 
steps  as  follows — 

Arcanum  XI.  :  Strength. 

Second  hour  of  Apollonius  :  '"'  The  abyss  of  fire — the 
virtues  of  the  stars  close  as  a  crown  through  the  dragons 
and  the  fire"  (the  magnetic  chain). 

The  Neophyte  learns  to  distinguish  universal  Force 
and  its  double  current,  positive  and  negative,  in  his  own 


THE   INITIATIVE   TAROT.  267 

organization.     The  application  of  this  knowledge  will  be 
found  in  the  two  following  hours — 

Arcanum  XII.  :  The  Great  Work. 

Third  hour  of  Apollonius  :  "  The  serpents,  the  dogs, 
and  fire!' 

The  first  manifestation  of  force  applied  externally  to 
inert  matter  for  atfecting  transmutations;  this  is  Alchemy. 
The  Neophyte  having  attained  this  step  in  practice  must 
be  ready  morally  to  make  a  complete  sacrifice  of  his 
personality  ;  in  the  language  of  the  alchemists,  he  must 
have  destroyed  his  fixed  nature  by  fire  so  as  to  volatilize  it. 

Arcanum  XIII.:  Death. 

Fourth  hour  of  Apollonius:  "  The  Neophyte  wanders  in 
the  sepulchres,  and  it  will  injure  him;  he  will  experience 
horror  and  fear  of  visions  ;  he  should  devote  himself  to 
magic  and  to  géotie"  l 

This  is  Necromancy,  the  application  of  Force  to  the 
domination  of  inferior  living  beings  :  Elemental,  or 
organisms  ready  to  synthetize  themselves,  and  Elementary , 
remains  of  the  dead,  on  the  way  to  disorganization. 

Morally,  the  Neophyte  should  die  to  ordinary  life,  to 
enter  the  spiritual  life  ;  the  celestial  man  will  be  born  from 
the  corpse  of  the  terrestrial  man. 

The  foundations  of  the  Universe  are  now  reached  ;  the 
Neophyte  touches  the  extremity  of  the  terrestrial  aura, 
the  sublunar  atmosphere  which  surrounds  every  planet, 
like  the  reservoir  of  the  elements  of  its  life  ;  he  has  now 
reached  a  terrible  moment,  when  he  must  lose  the  earth 

1  The  magic  which  evokes  the  evil  genii  who  injure  man — A.P.M. 


268  THE  TAROT. 

to  launch  out  into  the  ocean  of  space  ;  a  formidable  crisis, 
to  which  two  periods  are  consecrated. 
The  first  is  transitory. 

Arcanum  XIV.  :  The  two  Urns  (the  terrestrial  and 
celestial  fluids). 

Fifth  hour  of  Apollonius  :  "  The  waters  above  the 
heavens!' 

Here  the  Neophyte  learns  the  flow  of  the  astral  currents 
in  the  planetary  aura,  just  as  in  the  second  hour  he 
acquired  a  preliminary  knowledge  of  Force,  before  exposing 
himself  to  it  in  the  following  hour. 

Arcanum  XV.  :  Typhon  (the  electric  whirlwind). 

Sixth  hour  of  Apollonius:  "Here  one  must  remain 
quiet,  immovable  through  fear." 

Unprotected  the  Neophyte  exposes  himself  to  the 
double  and  formidable  fluid-current  of  celestial  space,  by 
which  the  ignorant  or  imprudent  is  carried  away  without 
mercy,  but  which  raises  the  strong  man  who  has  purified 
himself.     Silence,  prudence,  courage  ! 

According  to  your  deserts  you  will  be  enraptured  like 
St.  Paul,  or  you  will  expose  yourself  either  to  madness, 
to  the  spiritualization  of  evil,  or  to  sorcery.  This  is  the 
Sabbat  or  the  Ecstasy  ! 

The  reader  cannot  pay  too  much  attention  to  this 
solemn  monument  of  practical  occultism,  so  well  described 
in  Lytton's  novel  Zanoni  under  the  name  of  the  Dragon 
of  the  Threshold;  it  is  the  formidable  danger  which 
necessitates  so  many  secrets.  This  threshold  is  reached 
by  many  artificial  paths  :  the  hachich,  narcotics,  hyp- 
notics of  every  kind,  the  practices  of  spiritual  mediums  ; 


THE   INITIATIVE   TAROT.  269 

but  woe  to  him  who  attempts  to  pass  it  before  he  has 
triumphed  in  the  long  and  laborious  preliminary  prepar- 
ation !     His  fate  is  foretold  in  the  next  arcanum. 

Arcanum  XVI.  :  The  Lightning-struck  Tower. 

Seventh  hour  of  Apollonius:  "Fire  comforts  every 
living  creature,  and  if  some  priest,  himself  a  pure  man, 
purloin  and  use  it,  if  he  blend  it  with  holy  oil,  consecrate 
it,  and  then  anoint  some  ailing  limb  with  it,  the  malady 
will  be  cured? 

The  irresistible  current  has  touched  the  man  who 
exposed  himself  to  its  vortex  on  the  terrestrial  heights  ; 
if  he  be  impure  he  is  threatened  with  disorganization 
more  or  less  complete,  according  to  his  intellectual  or 
moral  un  worthiness,  and  his  energy  (incoherent  mysticism, 
folly,  death,  or  complete  disintegration,  represented  by  the 
genius  of  evil,  the  Devil)  ! 

If,  on  the  contrary,  he  be  worthy  of  the  higher  regions, 
this  baptism  of  fire  renders  him  one  of  the  Magi  ;  the 
sources  of  terrestrial  life  are  at  his  disposition  ;  he  becomes 
a  Therapeut. 

Having  reached  this  point,  he  will  then  learn  to  know 
the  celestial  spheres  progressively  as  he  knows  the 
terrestrial  one,  and  to  dominate  them  ;  three  hours  are 
consecrated  to  this  exploration — 

Arcanum  XVII.  :  The  Star  of  the  Magi. 

Eighth  hour  of  Apollonius  :  "  The  astral  virtues  of  the 
elements,  of  seed  of  every  kind? 

This  is  the  region  of  the  principles  of  the  solar  system; 
in  it  life  becomes  clear;  its  distribution  from  the  solar 
centre  to  all  the  planets,  and  their  reciprocal  influences, 


270  THE,  TAROT. 

are  understood  in  all  their  details,  in  what  the  occultists 
name  the  Correspondences.  The  Initiate  is  then  master 
of  Astrology  in  every  branch  of  the  science,  in  the  widest 
meaning  of  its  acceptation. 

Arcanum  XVIII.  :  The  Twilight. 

Ninth  hour  of  Apollonius  :  "  Nothing  is  finished  here." 

The  Initiate  now  extends  his  perceptions  beyond  our 
solar  system,  "  beyond  the  Zodiac  "  ;  he  is  in  sight  of  the 
Infinite  ;  he  touches  the  limits  of  the  intelligible  world  ; 
the  divine  light  commences  to  show  itself,  the  object  of 
new  terror  and  danger. 

Arcanum  XIX.  :  The  Resplendent  Light. 

Tenth  hour  of  Apollonius  :  "  The  gates  of  heaven  arc 
open,  and  man  is  born  again,  docile  in  the  lethargic  sleep!' 

The  Idea  appears  to  the  regenerate  soul  of  the  Initiate, 
or,  in  the  language  of  the  Occultist,  the  spiritual  sun  will 
rise  for  him  ;  he  will  by  a  new  regeneration  enter  the 
Divine  World,  in  which  man  dies  no  more. 

Two  steps  remain  before  the  highest  human  destinies 
can  be  accomplished — 

Arcanum  XX.  :  The  Awakening  of  the  Bead. 

Eleventh  hour  of  Apollonius  :  "  The  Angels,  the 
Cherubim,  and  the  Seraphim  fly  ivith  rustling  wings  ; 
there  is  joy  in  heaven,  the  earth  rises,  and  the  Sun,  which 
issues  from  Adam." 

This  is  the  hierarchy  of  the  Divine  world,  which  appears 
upon  new  earths  and  new  heavens.  The  Initiate  will 
not  pass  through  death  again;  henceforth  he  will  live 
eternally. 


THE    INITIATIVE   TAEOT. 


271 


Arcanum  XXII.  :  The  Grown  of  the  Magi. 
Twelfth  hour  of  Apollonius  :  "  The  cohorts  of  fire  rest" 
Nirvana  !     Complete  return  to  a. 

Let  us  recapitulate  these  twelve  hours  of  the  initiation. 


0. — Preliminary  studies  and  tests. 

Arcanum  X. 

1st  hour 

I. — Transcendent      study      of      the    Visible 

World. 

Inferior  Manifestations  : 

1.  Preliminary      study      of 

Force. 

{Magnetism) 

Arcanum  XI. 

2nd  hour 

2.    Application  to  the   inert 

world. 

{Alchemy) 

Arcanum  XII. 

3rd  hour 

3.   Application   to    the    ani- 

mate elementary  world. 

{Necromancy) 

Arcanum  XIII. 

4th  hour 

{Magic) 

(Death) 

Transitory  phase  : 

1.  View     of     the     superior 

forces. 

Arcanum  XIV. 

5th  hour 

2.  Entrance  into  the  ultra- 

terrestrial  world. 

{Ecstasy) 

Arcanum  XV. 

6th  hour 

The  Dragon  of  the  Threshold  ! 

(Typhon) 

Higher  regions  : 

1.  Application  of  the  higher 

forces   to  the   terrestial 

life. 

{ Therapeutics) 

Arcanum  XVI. 

7th  hour 

2.   The   forces  in   the    solar 

system. 

{Astrology) 

Arcanum  XVII. 

8th  hour 

3.   The  forces  of  the  whole 

Universe. 

Arcanum  XVIII. 

9th  hour 

II. — Study  of  the  Intelligible  World. 

On  the  borders  of  the  Infinite. 

Arcanum  XIX. 

10th  hour 

III. — Study  of  the  Divine  World. 

Divine  hierarchies 

Arcanum  XX. 

11 th  hour 

Nirvana  ! 

Arcanum  XXII. 

12th  hour! 

272  THE   TAROT. 

Need  we  add  how  much  effort  and  time  (years,  lives, 
often  centuries)  are  required  for  each  of  these  hours,  how 
few  there  are  who  pass  even  the  first  steps  ! 

And  what  can  we  expect  from  their  knowledge  ?  The 
hoj3e  of  indefinite  progress  towards  the  realization  of  our 
most  radiant  hopes,  the  desire  to  attain  at  least  those 
first  realizations,  so  that  we  may  derive  from  them  the 
assurance  of  the  others  ;  confidence  in  the  instruction  of 
those  whom  we  recognize  for  masters  already  far  advanced  ; 
lastly,  the  certainty  that  in  these  fruitful  doctrines  we 
shall  find  the  salvation  of  our  suffering  societies,  as  well 
as  the  most  longed-for  individual  happiness.  And  these 
desires,  this  confidence,  are  felt  after  the  first  preliminary 
studies. 

To  succeed,  we  need  undertake  but  one  work  at  first, 
that  which  the  Sphinx  depicts  to  us  :  moral  and  intellectual 
preparations.  But  only  the  man  who  seriously  under- 
takes them  can  know  what  immense  and  persevering 
efforts  they  exact  !  May  this  rough  glimpse  of  them 
inspire  the  reader  with  the  desire  and  the  courage  to 
devote  himself  to  them  with  all  the  ardour  of  Hope  ! 

F.  Ch.  Barlet. 


THE  DIVINE  NAME  IN  THE  TAROT. 
By  Ch.  Barlet. 

The  totality  of  the  symbols  which  form  the  Tarot  is 
distributed  through  a  series  of  78  plates  or  cards,  instead  of 
being  presented  in  a  single  figure  ;  the  reason  for  this  is, 
that  the  signification  of  this  totality  is  very  multiple  ;  for 
it  is  at  the  same  time  théologie,  cosmologie,  psychologic, 
and  divining,  and  this  variety  is  the  result  of  the  different 
combinations  which  can  be  produced  by  the  arrangement 
and  comparison  of  these  78  cards.  This  variety  is  not  one 
of  the  lesser  beauties  of  this  unique  masterpiece,  in  the 
sense  that  it  adds  movement  and  consequently  life  to  the 
usual  immobility  of  every  written  representation,  without 
counting  the  diversity  of  its  appliances,  which  include 
numbers,  words,  form,  and  colour. 

The  Tarot  can  therefore  be  made  to  speak  when  one  of 
its  innumerable  combinations  has  been  found  ;  that  is  to 
say,  when  the  student  knows  how  to  arrange  the  whole  or 
part  of  his  cards  upon  the  table,  in  the  order  necessary  to 
discover  the  answer  which  he  seeks. 

We  ask  him  :  What  is  the  Creation  from  man  s  point  of 
view,  that  is  to  say,  what  is  the  life  of  the  Great  All,  and 
how  can  or  should  man  participate  in  it  ?  The  whole 
Tarot,  with  its  22  great  arcana  and  56  minor  arcana,  will 
answer  us,  as  we  shall  show  by  quoting  only  a  few  of  the 
profound  interpretations  which  it  provides. 


274  THE   TAROT. 

To  obtain  this  information  we  must  remember  that  the 
three  first  cards  which  express  the  Trinity  form  at  the 
same  time  the  key  to  the  22  great  arcana,  which,  when 
the  0  is  abstracted,  are  only  seven  repetitions  of  this 
Trinity.  We  must  also  notice  that  the  card  IV.,  the 
fourth  term  of  the  divine  tetractys,  is  both  the  realization 
of  the  Trinity  restored  to  the  unity,  and  the  first  term  of 
the  following  Trinity.  The  four  first  cards  thus  represent 
the  divine  name  of  4  letters,  IEVE  (PlTT),  so  that  if  we 
repeat  the  Trinity  seven  times,  to  obtain  the  sequence  of 
the  21  great  arcana,  the  numbers  will  correspond  to  the 
four  letters  as  follows — 

lumbers       1.   2.   3  —  4.  5.   6.  —  7.   8.   9  —  etc. 

^ni-n^n  —  irr>  —  etc 


Letters... 

I    E   V  -   ■  E   I    E      -  V  E    I      -  etc. 

We  will  assume  that  these  letters  are  thus  attached  to 
the  corresponding  arcana,  and  this  remark  will  be  the  first 
key  to  the  arrangement  which  we  are  looking  for. 

To  find  a  second  key,  we  must  redeal  our  cards  in  a 
given  space  ;  at  first  only  their  place  in  the  plane  will 
appear  ;  then  it  will  be  clearly  defined.  We  know  that 
the  Kosmos  is  conceived  as  the  final  expansion  of  the 
mathematical  point,  that  is  to  say,  of  the  Absolute,  which 
before  this  expansion  included  all  force  or  potentiality  in 
its  nothingness.  Let  us  draw  this  sphere  (see  Fig.  1). 
The  centre  of  it  will  be  represented  by  one  of  the  cards, 
0,  the  Foolish  Man  or  Crocodile,  which  is  the  pivot  of 
the  whole  pack,  at  the  same  time  that  it  participates  in  all 
the  other  cards,  for  they  include  all  the  properties  of  our 
universe.  From  some  point  of  the  sphere,  a  point  which 
becomes  our  north  pole,  the  movement  will  start,  by  which 
the  creation  will  appear  on  its  surface. 


276  THE   TAROT. 

Around  this  point  upon  the  sphere,  the  reflex  of  the 
centre,  we  will  place  the  cards  of  our  3  first  arcana  :  I.  (the 
Mage,  the  Spirit,  >)  ;  II.  (Knowledge,  Substance,  n)  ;  III. 
(Love,  the  fertile  Power,  the  Being,  1)  ;  and  in  order 
that  this  Trinity  may  be  repeated  in  the  whole  septenary 
of  our  distribution  we  will  make  it  the  root  of  3  great 
divisions,  representing  the  3  terms  of  the  Trinity,  which 
will  divide  the  surface  of  our  sphere  by  3  meridians. 

We  can  then  continue  the  distribution  of  our  cards 
upon  this  surface  in  the  following  way.  The  head  of  each 
partial  Trinity  will  be  in  division  1  ;  each  second  term 
will  be  in  division  2  ;  each  third  term  in  division  3. 
Consequently  our  IV.  card  (the  Emperor,  H)  will  be  in  the 
I.  ;  the  V.  card  (the  Pope,  *))  will  be  in  II.  ;  the  VI.  card 
(Liberty,  FT)  will  be  in  III.,  and  this  second  ^sequence  will 
form  a  new  zone  upon  the  sphere.  A  third,  a  little 
inferior,  will  be  formed  by  cards  VII.,  VIII.  and  IX.,  cards 
XL,  X.  and  XII.  will  occupy  the  Equator,  and  the  9  cards 
from  XIII.  to  XXI.  will  be  distributed  like  the  9  first,  in  3 
bands  placed  upon  the  lower  hemisphere  as  shown  in  Fig.  1. 

Now  our  22  great  arcana  are  placed  ;  let  us  pause  and 
look  at  their  significations.  'Above  the  Equator  we  see  an 
ever-increasing  expansion  of  the  North  Pole,  represented 
by  the  3  upper  triangles,  then  by  the  6  trapezes  which 
follow,  each  larger  than  the  one  before.  Here  are  the  three 
planes  of  the  Creation  :  The  Divine,  metaphysic  (I.,  IL, 
III.),  the  Intelligible,  moral  (IV.,  V.,  VI.),  and  the  physical, 
that  of  the  generative  attributes  or  elements  (VIL,  VIIL, 
and  IX.). 

The  creation  is  realized  upon  the  equatorial  line  (X.. 
XL,  XIL),  in  which  the  first  term,  with  the  preceding  cards, 
represents  the  10  sephiroth  of  the  Kabbalah. 

Below  the  Equator,  in  the  world  of  material  realization, 


THE   INITIATIVE  TAROT.  277 

which  is  quitted  by  Death  (XIII.),  this  expansion  is 
retracted  and  synthetized  by  an  inverse  and  symmetrical 
movement  of  the  above.  The  arcana  which  follow 
represent  Initiation  carried  to  its  extreme  limits,  the 
path  by  which  the  creature  (X.)  returns  from  its  multi- 
plicity to  the  unity  of  the  spirit,  goes  back  to  the  point — 
the  southern  pole — a  new  reflex  of  the  Absolute,  towards 
which  it  reascends  by  the  vertical  axis  of  the  sphere.1 

The  Neophyte,  after  his  preparation  (positive  science, 
magnetism  and  alchemy,  X.,  XI.,  XII.),  travels  through  the 
sublunar  world  (XI IL,  XIV.,  XV.),  then  through  the  solar 
system  (XVI.,  XVII.  and  XVIIL),  and  escapes  by  the  sun 
in  the  abyss  of  the  Infinite  (XIX.,  XX,  XXL). 

We  may  now  end  this  short  explanation  of  the  practical 
distribution  of  our  22  arcana  upon  a  plane  (the  reader  will 
do  well  to  imitate  it  upon  a  table  with  a  pack  of  Tarot 
cards).  The  student  should  imagine  that  our  sphere  is 
seen  from  a  considerable  distance,  vertical  upon  its  axis  ; 
for  instance,  at  the  distance  of  the  earth  from  the  sun,  the 
upper  hemisphere  only  will  appear,  the  other  being  seen 
but  transparently  ;  and  it  will  look  like  a  circle,  with  the 
Equator  for  its  circumference.  The  limits  of  the  3  super- 
posed zones  appear  like  3  concentric  circles  ;  the  meri- 
dional planes,  seen  by  their  dividing  lines,  only  look  like 
3  equally  divided  radii,  making  of  the  3  sectors  3  equal 
arcs.  This  representation,  which  geometricians  name  pro- 
jection upon  the  plane  of  the  Equator,  gives  the  second 
figure  (the  4  circles  of  the  centre  only)  ;  to  it,  for  the  sake 
of  clearness  in  the  symbols,  has  been  added  an  equilateral 
triangle  inscribed  in  the  inner  circle,  with  the  points 
posed  upon  the  3  meridians.     The  Roman  figures  inscribed 

1  The  details  which  justify  this  assertion  will  be  found  in  the  first 
part  of  this  chapter. 


278  THE   TAROT. 

in  the  circles  represent  the  numbers  of  the  cards  placed 
as  we  have  said,  and,  consequently,  also  indicate  their  place 
upon  the  table.  The  arcana  of  the  lower  hemisphere  are 
indicated  upon  the  figure  in  dotted  letters,  in  the  same 
circles  as  the  preceding  ;  since  the  lower  zones,  seen  only 
transparently,  might  be  confused  with  the  upper,  through 
their  mutual  symmetry. 

Here,  in  its  great  features,  is  already  an  answer  to  our 
questions  :  the  Spirit  descends  by  three  trinities  from  the 
Absolute  into  Matter  (upper  hemisphere).  It  is  realized  by 
the  trinity  X.  (Malchut),  XI.  and  XII.  (the  Equator),  and 
it  returns  to  the  Absolute  by  a  trinity  of  growing  synthesis, 
which  constitutes  human  progress  (lower  hemisphere). 

We  will  presently  explain  some  of  the  philosophic 
interpretations  which  this  distribution  furnishes  ;  let  us 
first  complete  it  by  our  55  minor  arcana.  They  especially 
represent  our  solar  world. 

Since  we  are  now  in  the  world  of  realization,  4  is  its 
number,  its  fundamental  basis  ;  it  is  the  Trinity  realized  ; 
the  divine  name  of  4  letters  IEVE  (mrP).  Our  cards  will 
be  divided  into  4  sections  :  the  4  colours  of  the  pack, 
spades,  hearts,  clubs,  and  diamonds,  with  their  hieroglyphic 
and  far  more  significant  names  :  the  Sceptres,  Cups,  Swords, 
and  Pentacles. 

Everything  is  dual  in  this  world,  where  the  equilibrium 
is  unstable,  unable  to  find  any  rest,  except  in  the  return 
to  the  Trinity,  from  which  it  proceeds.  Thus  these  4 
fundamental  divisions  will  divide  into  2  duads  :  the  one 
spiritual,  the  other  material,  each  composed  of  a  masculine 
and  feminine  principle,  namely — 

Spiritual  duad,  the  Sceptre  (spades,  a  full  triangle, 
masculine)  ;  the  Cup  (heart,  an  open  triangle,  feminine)  ; 
religious  attributes  ; 


THE  INITIATIVE   TAROT.  279 

Material   duad  :    the    S  word    (club,    a    lobed    triangle"! 
and  the  Pentach  (diamond,  double  triangle)  ;  the  attributes 
of  the  warrior  and  of  the  artisan. 

Four  other  divisions  correspond  to  these  4  colours,  those 
of  the  figures  which  also  form  4  duads,  namely — 

King  and  Queen  ; 

Knight  or  Warrior,  and  Knave. 

As  to  the  numbers  which  follow  these  figures,  they  lead 
us  to  another  consideration,  which  is  also  essential  to  the 
distribution  of  our  cards — 

If  4  is  the  fundamental  number  of  these  minor  arcana, 
the  symbols  of  our  world,  we  must  not  forget  that  it  is 
also  connected  with  the  Trinity,  from  which  it  emanates  ; 
that  it  realizes  it,  and  returns  to  it.  We  must  then  also 
find  the  ternary  element  in  it  :  after  the  colours  and  the 
figures,  which  have  provided  the  basis  of  our  world,  the 
numbers,  which  are,  as  it  were,  the  essence  of  it,  will 
reflect  the  sepbiroth  in  it,  and  by  them  the  act  of  creation. 
They  pause,  in  fact,  at  10,  including  3  trinities  besides  the 
tenth,  Malchut,  which  unites  them. 

Our  distribution  must  also  take  the  two  numbers  3  and 
4  into  account,  by  combining  them  so  as  to  utilize  all  the 
elements  which  we  have  just  enumerated.  This  is  how 
we  can  do  this  (follow  Fig.  1  upon  the  plane  of  the 
Equator,  represented  as  a  ring  outside  the  sphere) — 

We  will  first  separate  some  of  the  cards  :  the  Knave  of 
each  of  the  4  colours  (H),  which,  as  the  realization  of  the 
Trinity,  King  (*»),  Queen  (H),  Knight  (1),  serves  as  the  tran- 
sition from  the  quaternary  to  the  ternary;  and  the  10 
of  each  colour,  the  unity  of  complete  realization,  the  multiple 
unity  1  and  0 — Malchut. 

The  Knaves,  by  their  participation  in  the  quaternary 
and  ternary,  and  their  return  to  the  Unity  by  the  Trinity, 


280  THE   TAROT. 

have  a  universality  which  connects  them  with  the  un- 
numbered card  0  of  the  great  arcana  ;  we  will  therefore 
place  them  round  this  card,  as  a  cross,  in  the  centre  of  our 
equatorial  circle.  In  this  way  the  centre  will  express  :  By 
the  card  0,  the  original  unity,  the  source  and  aim  of 
creation  ;  by  its  triangle,  the  primitive  Trinity  ;  by  its  4 
colours,  the  quaternary  in  which  it  is  realized  ;  by  the 
character  of  the  4  Knaves,  the  return  of  this  quaternary  to 
the  ternary  ;  in  short,  the  whole  creation  assembled  in  one 
point,  in  potentiality,  which  is  the  characteristic  of  the 
Spirit. 

On  the  other  hand  the  four  10  will  be  placed  at  the  ex- 
tremities of  the  cross  formed  by  the  Knaves,  outside  all  our 
circles,  as  the  expression  of  the  Unity  multiple,  in  its  last 
term  of  differentiation. 

As  to  the  other  cards,  they  include  first  3  kinds  of 
figures,  which  correspond  with  the  3  terms  of  the 
Trinity  ;  it  is  quite  simple  to  distribute  them  in  the  3 
parts  of  our  external  equatorial  plane,  corresponding  with 
the  3  divisions  of  the  sphere — 

The  Kings  opposite  to  division  I  (*)  ; 
The  Queens  opposite  to  division  E  (H)  ; 
The  Knights  opposite  to  division  V  (1)  ; 

and,  since  there  are  4  colours  for  each  of  them,  4  sub- 
divisions are  naturally  produced  in  each  of  our  3  principal 
divisions;  these  4  subdivisions,  corresponding  to  the 
Sceptre  Q,  the  Cup  (n),  the  SAVord  Q),  and  the  Pentacle  (n), 
also  repeat  the  Divine  name  of  4  letters  (IEVE)  (n^), 
and  form  the  passage  from  the  ternary  to  the  quaternary. 

Now  only  the  numbers  remain  to  be  placed  ;  and  we 
have  only  to  make  them  correspond  with  the  terms  of  the 
Trinity — 


THE   INITIATIVE  TAROT.  281 

The  four  1  behind  the  Kings  : 
The  four  2  behind  the  Queens  ; 
The  four  3  behind  the  Knights. 

Then,  in  a  still  more  external  circle — 

The  four  4  outside  the  Kings  and  the  1  ; 
The  four  5  outside  the  Queens  and  the  2  ; 
The  four  6  outside  the  Knights  and  the  3. 

Finally,  an  outlying  circle  will  include  the  four  7,  8  and  9 
in  the  same  order.  As  to  the  four  10,  they  are  placed  quite 
outside,  as  we  have  already  said. 

We  thus  obtain  the  distribution  represented  by  the 
figures  1  and  2. 

Let  us  now  consider  their  signification. 

The  living  atom  descended  upon  the  sphere  has  reached 
the  point  represented  by  arcanum  X.,  the  ivheel  of  JEzekiel, 
which  raises  man  and  lowers  the  elemental.  From  this,  the 
atom  falls,  so  to  speak,  through  the  material  world,  which 
he  has  just  entered.  He  first  descends  through  the  spiritual 
decade  (Sceptre  and  Cup)  (see  the  figure),  traversing 
numbers  of  increasing  complexity  :  King,  1,  4,  7,  then  10. 
By  this  10,  the  multiple  unity,  limit  of  materialization, 
which  unites  the  two  portions  of  the  decade  Sceptre-Cup, 
he  resumes  in  an  inverse  sense,  as  though  by  a  reascending 
arc,  the  road  which  will  lead  him  back  to  plate  X., 
remounting  the  4,  7,  10,  and  King  of  Cups  and  Swords,  the 
substantial  duad. 

This  is  only  one-third  of  the  voyage  which  the  living- 
atom  must  accomplish  in  the  real  world  ;  and,  in  this  first 
excursion  through  matter,  he  has  still  retained  the 
spiritual  character  which  he  received  from  Yod  p),  the 
characteristic  of  plate  X.  ;  he  must  now  lose  this  character 
for  that  of  the  following  E  (n).     To  this  end,  he  passes 


282  THE   TAROT. 

from  plate  X.,  which  he  has  just  re-entered,  to  plate  XI.  (p), 
the  Hermit,  the  veiled  Lamp,  to  pass  in  the  same  way  as 
he  has  already  done  through  the  dual  series  of  the  Sceptre- 
Cup,  through  the  Queens,  the  2,  5,  and  8,  passing  by  the 
10  of  Cups,  and  remounting  by  it  through  the  second 
series,  Sword-Pentacles,  to  the  arcanum  XL,  the  starting- 
point  of  this  second  excursion. 

Finally,  from  this  last  arcanum  he  passes  to  number 
XII.  (*)),  the  Sacrifiée,  descends  the  neuter  series  of  the 
Knight,  3,  6,  9  of  Sceptres  and  Cups,  crosses  the  10  of 
Swords  and  the  10  of  Pentacles,  and  remounts  by  the 
dual  Swords  and  Pentacles  to  the  intelligible  world. 

His  journey  across  the  material  world  is  completed  ;  he 
has  travelled  over  the  Zodiac  ;  he  will  now  die  ;  the 
arcanum  XIII.  is  ready  for  him,  and  will  give  him  access 
to  the  spiritual  world,  to  the  Redemption. 

We  will  now  explain  some  other  features  of  this 
distribution. 

It  divides  the  external  circle  of  the  Equator  into  3  arcs, 
subdivided  into  4  portions;  in  all  12  divisions  of  different 
characters.  These  are  the  12  signs  of  the  Zodiac.  The 
first  is  naturally  ranked  with  the  first  card  of  the  minor 
arcana  in  the  spiritual  sector,  i.  e.  the  King  of  Sceptres 
(Spades)  ;  the  second  corresponds  with  the  King  of  Cups, 
and  so  on  to  the  twelfth. 

One  observation  will  suffice  to  justify  the  connection 
between  the  zodiac  and  our  cards.  We  must  note  the  12 
divisions  of  the  circle  into  the  triple  repetition  of  the  4 
letters  of  the  Sacred  Name;  an  operation  legitimized  by 
the  remark  already  made,  that  these  4  colours  correspond 
with  these  letters  (see  Fig.  2,  in  the  intermediate 
circle,  where  the  signs  of  the  Zodiac  are  written).  We  at 
once  recognize  the  4  trigons  of  the  Zodiac,  corresponding 


THE   INITIATIVE   TAROT.  283 

with  the  elements  which  the  4  colours  also  represent,  and 
these  trigons  are  characterized  as  well  as  designated. 

The  fiery  trigon  (T,  £>,  £)>  corresponding  with  the 
Sceptre  and  the  letters  ^\  is  swayed  by  the  spiritual  element. 

The  earthy  trigon  (8,^,^,  corresponding  to  the 
Gup  and  to  the  letters  Finn,  namely,  two  E's  of  the  name 
of  3  letters,  and  the  final  E  of  the  name  of  4  letters — 
an  essentially  feminine  character,  substantial,  but  of 
superior  order. 

The  airy  trigon  (II,  JX  ï£),  corresponding  to  the  Sivœ^d 
and  the  letters  TÏÏ1,  swayed  by  the  masculine  element  of 
the  second  order. 

The  watery  trigon  (23,  TTL,  )-(),  corresponding  to  the 
Pentacle  and  to  the  letters  T\r\T\,  comprising,  this  time,  the 
final  E  of  the  name  of  4  letters  twice  repeated,  and  the  E 
of  the  name  of  3  letters — the  dominant  character,  the 
inferior  feminine. 

But  we  must  leave  the  minor  arcana  to  the  investi- 
gations of  the  reader — they  would  lead  us  too  far — and 
return  to  some  further  notice  of  the  great  arcana. 

Let  us  first  notice  how  the  three  chief  sectors  preserve 
and  reoroduce  their  innate  characters  in  all  their  divisions. 

L 

We  find,  in  the  first,  that  of  the  letter  Yod  Q),  the  Spirit, 
the  members  of  the  unity,  I.,  IV.,  VIL,  X.  (repeated  in  the 
minor  arcana)  ;  as  figure,  the  Kings  ;  as  colour,  the 
Sceptre  ;  in  the  Zodiac,  the  lines  of  the  ascension  of  the 
sun  above  the  Equator  from  the  spring  to  the  solstice. 

In  the  second  sector  (n)  the  substantial  principle  is  the 
feminine  numbers  IL,  V.,  VIIL,  XL  (repeated  in  the  minor 
arcana)  ;  as  figure,  the  Queens  ;  as  colour,  the  Cup  ;  in 
the  Zodiac,  the  four  signs  of  the  descent  of  the  sun 
towards  the  Equator  ;  the  season  of  harvests  and  vintages, 
fecundity  in  all  its  forms. 


> 


\ 


<t> 


rV/ 


A 


0 


-—  b 


v\ïr 


.^ 


.S) 


4r* 


'Ci 


*  T 

K 

n 
10  0 

T 

Fig.   2. 


THE   INITIATIVE  TAROT.  285 

In  the  third  sector  (1),  the  Son,  the  Element,  are  the 
sacred  numbers  which  participate  in  the  two  preceding 
orders,  III.,  VI.,  IX.  ;  as  figure,  the  Knight  ;  as  colour,  the 
Pentacle  of  the  practical  world,  and  the  Sword  also,  which 
close  the  preceding  sector;  in  the  Zodiac,  the  signs  through 
which  the  sun  passes  in  the  southern  hemisphere  ;  our 
winter,  the  season  for  the  consumption  of  the  produce  of 
the  earth,  of  renovation  for  the  cycle  which  follows  : 
Christmas  is  in  the  centre  ;  the  new  birth  in  the  winter  of 
death  ;  the  time  when  the  Son  was  born  into  an  inferior 
world  to  reanimate  it. 

The  divine  Name  mrO  is  not  only  written  in  the  series  of 
concentric  circles,  it  is  also  found  upon  the  lines  belonging 
to  those  circles,  either  in  descending  or  in  remounting. 

The  first  sector  gives  it  without  transposition,  as  we  see 
in  Fig.  2. 

In  the  second  sector  the  divine  Name  is  preceded  by 
the  feminine  letter  E,  the  Mother,  and  finally  pauses  at  it  : 
E,  IEVE,  IE.     (See  the  figure.) 

In  the  third,  it  commences  by  the  letter  of  the  Son  and 
ends  by  that  of  the  Father,  to  which  he  returns  :  VE, 
IEVE,  I. 

We  shall  now  inquire  from  the  symbols  of  the  cards  the 
different  ways  of  pronouncing  the  divine  Name,  and  also  the 
variotts  manifestations  in  the  Kosmos  of  each  of  these  four 
letters.  Let  us  question  even  the  spirit  of  these  symbols, 
instead  of  their  number,  colour,  or  form,  which  have 
chiefly  occupied  us  at  present. 

By  first  following  the  regular  order  of  our  arrangement 
we  shall  find — 

In  the  divine  world  :  the  arcana  I.,  II.,  III.,  IV.,  the 
divine  Tetractys,  comprising:  (1)  the  Absolute  Being;  (2) 
the  Consciousness  of  the  Absolute  ;  (3)  Love  or  the  power 


286  THE   TAROT. 

of  fecundity  ;  (4)  the  realization  of  the  virtualities  of  the 
Absolute. 

In  the  world  of  laws  :  arcanum  V.,  the  laws  of  the 
l elation  of  the  Created  with  the  Uncreate  (the  Initiator, 
Fear  also).1  VI.  (Liberty,  Beauty)  ;  knowledge  of  good 
and  evil  ;  knowledge  of  the  Law.  VII.  (Glory)  ;  rule  of 
the  Spirit  over  Matter,  the  fertile  power  of  the  Law  ;  and 
VIII.  (absolute  Justice,  Victory),  realization  of  the  Law. 

In  the  physical  world  :  arcana  IX.  (the  veiled  Lamp),  the 
light  extinguished  in  the  darkness  of  the  substance,  the 
spirit  imprisoned  in  the  material  world,  Ycsod.  X.  (  Wheel 
of  Fortune),  which  raises  the  fallen  spirit  to  lead  it  back, 
with  the  nature  which  it  has  spiritualized,  to  all  its  power, 
by  Strength  (arcana  XL),  and  by  Sacrifice  (arcana  XII.). 

The  phases  of  spiritualization  then  follow.     XIII.  :  First 
phase  :  (Death)  to  the  physical  world.     XIV.  [the  two  Urns) 
combination  of  the  movements    of  life.     XV.  (Typhon) 
Magic.     XVI.   (the    Lightning-struck    Tower)  ;   the    inter- 
planetary force. 

Second  phase  :  XVII.  (the  flaming  Star),  the  internal 
light.  XVIII.  (the  Twilight),  the  aurora  of  the  divine  sun. 
XIX.  (the  Sun),  central;  and  XX.  (the  Judgment),  after 
which  the  supreme  realization  is  obtained,  the  Crown  of  the 
Magi. 

We  have  said  that  the  divine  Name  is  again  enunciated 
in  following  the  three  sectors. 

In  the  first  are  the  arcana  I.,  IV.,  VII.,  X.  The  absolute, 
the  realization  of  its  virtualities,  the  dominion  of  Spirit 
over  Matter,  and  the  animating  principle  of  beings. 
Then,  in  return,  XIII.,  XVI.,  XIX.  and  I.     Death  (Inertia), 

1  Consult  for  the  generation  and  signification  of  numbers  the 
Traité  Élémentaire  de  Science  Occulte,  by  Papus,  a  learned  author, 
whose  good  counsels  have  produced  the  best  part  of  this  article. 


THE   INITIATIVE   TAROT.  287 

the  astral  light,  the  central  sun,  and  the  Unspeakable 
himself. 

This  is  the  account,  by  the  principles,  of  the  differentia- 
tion and  integration  of  the  Absolute. 

In  the  second  sector,  the  one  which  corresponds  to  the 
consciousness  of  the  Absolute  or  faith,  we  have  the  series, 
V.,  VIII.,  XI.,  XIV.  :  the  Hierophant,  or  religion  ;  Justice, 
Force,  and  the  combination  of  the  movements  of  life;  the 
image  of  the  Saints;  the  Mystics  of  all  religions,  who  by 
absolute  Faith  and  Justice,  receptive,  feminine  virtues, 
acquire,  without  seeking  for  it,  the  power  of  working- 
prodigies. 

Lastly,  in  the  third  Sector,  that  of  Love  or  power  of 
fecundity,  we  have  the  series  :  IX.,  Wisdom  and  Prudence  ; 
XII.,  the  Sacrifice;  XV.,  self-abandonment  to  the  astral 
forces  ;  and  XV1IL,  the  attainment  of  the  Infinite.  The 
essence  of  this  series  of  efforts,  both  active  and  passive, 
constitutes  Initiation,  the  Redemption. 

Let  us  once  more  seek  for  the  divine  Name,  through  the 
three  divisions  at  once.  We  shall  find,  for  instance,  the 
arcana  I.,  II.,  III.,  VI.,  which  demonstrate  the  divine 
Trinity,  manifesting  itself  by  Beauty  and  Liberty  in  the 
Intellectual  world  :  it  is  the  passage  of  the  Father  Q)  to 
the  Son  Q). 

Or  again,  I,  VI.,  IX.,  X.  :  The  descent  of  the  Father  (s) 
into  the  physical  world  (X.)  by  the  Son  (VI.)  and  by  Yesod 
(IX.);  the  Word  made  flesh.  This  is  the  Redemption, 
the  series  which  in  the  SepJur  Ydzirah  represents  the 
Column  of  the  Sephiroth  (Kether — Tiphereth — Yesod  and 
Malchutj.1 

1  The  signification  of  the  cards  is  borrowed  from  Fabre  d'Olivet, 
Wronski,  E.  Levi,  Christian,  and  the  Sepher  Ydzirah  (translation  by 
Pap  us). 


238  THE   TAROT. 

But  we  must  limit  these  examples,  which  the  reader  will 
easily  multiply  for  himself.  Let  us  only  add  a  few  more 
words  upon  our  second  problem  :  the  different  manifest- 
ations of  each  of  the  three  persons  of  the  divine  Trinity. 

The  Yod  is  found  in  the  arcana  I.,  V.,  IX.,  XII.  and 
XIII.  ;  in  Keter,  in  the  Hierophant,  in  the  Wise  Old  Man; 
then  it  presides  over  death,  which  will  bring  the  world 
from  the  depths  of  gloomy  Inertia  to  the  resplendent 
crown  of  the  Magi,  by  the  internal  light. 

It  will  be  noticed,  at  the  same  time,  that  the  Yod  is  the 
only  one  of  the  four  letters  which,  by  its  various  positions, 
forms  a  complete  spiral  round  the  sphere,  from  the  north 
to  the  south  poles  ;  a  symbol  which  may  appear  very 
remarkable  to  any  one  acquainted  with  the  mysteries  of 
the  life  of  a  planet. 

The  first  E,  the  celestial  Mother  (arcana  II.),  is  found 
in  the  arcana  VI.,  X.,  XIV.  and  XVIII.,  that  is  to  say, 
Beauty,  Form,  the  Angel  of  Temperance,  which  balances 
the  movements  of  life,  and  the  aurora  of  the  divine  Sun  ; 
Diana  the  Moon. 

The  V,  the  Son,  is  characterized  upon  the  various 
planes  by  the  arcana  III.,  VIL,  XL,  XV.  and  XIX.  ;  Love, 
the  fertile  power  ;  the  Ruler  over  Matter,  Force  ;  then 
Typhon,  the  mysterious  Baphomet  of  the  Templars, 
which  collects  the  superior  forces  to  spread  them  over  the 
Earth;  and  lastly,  the  central  Sun.  In  a  word,  the  Christ 
of  the  Gospel,  the  Spirit  of  Love,  the  Master  of  the 
Elements,  the  Word  made  flesh  to  spiritualize  the  flesh; 
the  divine  reflex  of  the  Universal  Sun. 

Lastly,  the  second  E  ;  the  terrestrial  Mother  is  seen  in 
the  arcana  IV.,  VIII. ,  XII.,  XVI.  and  XX.  The  realization 
of  the  divine  virtualities,  and  also  Mercy,  absolute 
Justice,   Sacrifice,  the  overwhelmed  and  suffering  Spirit, 


THE   INITIATIVE   TAROT.  289 

and  finally  Resurrection  ;  the  head  of  the  Serpent  crushed 
beneath  the  woman's  heel,  by  the  force  of  abnegation  and 
resigned  faith. 

We  need  only  follow  these  various  arcana  upon  the 
sphere,  to  see  once  more  that  the  Yod  has  3  superior 
arcana  (northern  hemisphere),  and  2  inferior  ; 

That  the  V  Q)  has  only  2  superior  and  1  medium 
(upon  the  Equator)  ; 

And  that  the  E  has  4  superior,  2  inferior,  and  2 
medium. 

Let  us  close  these  remarks,  already  too  lengthy,  by  a 
simple  observation  upon  the  general  effect  of  our 
arrangement. 

The  three  worlds,  Divine,  Intelligible,  and  Physical, 
are  found  not  only  in  the  three  zones  of  the  sphere,  but 
they  are  again  reproduced  in  the  whole  arrangement  ; 
the  Divine  is  in  the  centre,  through  the  Foolish  Man  of 
the  Tarot,  and  the  cross  of  four  colours  ;  this  we  have 
already  pointed  out. 

The  Intelligible  and  its  developments  are  provided  by 
the  sphere  (Fig.  1),  or  the  circular  distribution  of  the  21 
great  arcana  (Fig.  2). 

The  physical  is  seen  in  the  external  plane  of  the 
Equator  (Fig.  1),  with  the  distribution  of  the  56  minor 
arcana,  representing  the  Zodiac  and  the  various  degrees 
of  the  multiplicity  of  Force  through  substance  to  the 
extreme  pole,  the  negative  unity  10. 

Moreover,  the  whole  (Fig.   1)  reproduces  the  form  of 

the  planet  Saturn,  with  its  ring,  a  form  which  in  itself, 

according  to  the  theories  of  our  positive  sciences,  is  the 

clearest   manifestation,  the    demonstration    of  the   great 

laws    of    the    formation   of    the    Universe;    namely,    the 

concentration  of  the  substance  in  a  radiant  state  around 

u 


290  THE   TAROT. 

a  point  of  attraction,  producing  with  a  progressive  con- 
densation a  rotatory  movement,  particularly  accentuated 
at  the  Equator,  and  giving  birth  to  the  stars,  planets,  and 
satellites,  thus  descending  from  the  ethereal  nébuleuse  to 
the  atom,  to  the  solid  ultimate;  from  living  nothing- 
ness to  inert  nothingness,  from  the  unit  to  an  infinite 
multiplicity. 

Thus  the  Tarot,  the  secular  fruit  of  the  genius  of  our 
ancestors,  can  represent  not  only  the  creation  in  its  actual 
state,  but  its  history  even  in  details,  and  its  future 
with  that  of  the  human  creature,  even  to  their  principles  ; 
yet  avoiding,  by  the  combination  of  its  analogical  symbols, 
borrowed  from  natural  life,  the  rock  upon  which  all 
philosophy  breaks — namely,  the  definition  of  words,  the 
clear,  full  expression  of  the   Word  in  the  sublunar  world. 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 

THE   KABBALISTIC   TAROT. 

Deductions  by  Etteila  upon  the  Book  of  Thoth — Example  of  the 
Application  of  the  Tarot  to  the  Kabbalah,  the  Hierogram  of 
Adam  by  Stanislas  de  Guaita. 

Deductions  by  Etteila  upon  the  Book  of  Thoth. 

We  will  now  recapitulate  some  of  the  conclusions  which 
Etteila  attained  in  the  course  of  his  work  upon  the  Book 
of  Thoth  (the  Tarot). 

The  Booh  of  Thoth  Hermes  indicates  by  its  name  alone 
that  our  author  had  discovered  its  Egyptian  origin.  It 
is  composed  of  78  leaflets,  forming  4  volumes. 

The  1st  volume  contains  12  leaves- 
The  2nd  —  5    — 

The  3rd  —  5    — 

The  4th  —  56     — 

Thus  the  22  major  arcana  form  3  volumes,  and  the  56 
minor  arcana  form  the  last. 

The  56  leaves  of  the  last  volume  divide  in  the  following 
way,  according    to    the   operation   indicated    in  the    first 
reading  of  the  cards — 

26  +  17  +  11+2-56. 


292  THE  TAROT. 

The   4   divisions   of    the    56    leaflets    (the    4    colours) 
respectively  represent — 


1.  Agriculture. 

2.  Priesthood. 

3.  Nobility, 

4.  People, 


Magistrates. 
Soldiers. 
Art. 
Commerce 


The  Book  of  Thoth  contains  three  parts,  viz.  : 

22  Major  Atouts. 

16  Minor  Atouts  (the  figures). 

40  Small  cards. 

It  is  formed  like  a  living  beings  for — 

78  is  its  body  ; 
3  its  spirit  or  mediator  ; 
1  its  soul. 

If  we  add  the  12  first  leaflets  of  the  book  together,  we 
shall  discover  the  number  of  its  total — 

1  +  2  +  3  +  4  +  5  +  6  +  7  +  8  +  9  +  10  +  11  +  12  =  78. 

If  we  now  look  back  at  the  first  operation  in  reading 
the  cards  according  to  our  author,  new  deductions  will  arise. 

Number  78  will  be  found  to  represent  Salt,  or  the 
incorruptible  Spirit. 

The  number  1  (a  book)  represents  the  Unity,  the 
Divinity  ;  lastly,  the  number  26,  which  divides  the  Tarot 
into  three  parts,  is  exactly  that  of  Jehovah  (mrp). 


Total 


Yod  -  = 

=      10 

He 

5 

Vau      = 

6 

He 

5 

al 

26 

THE   KABBALISTIC   TAROT.  293 

In  the  first  operation *  upon  the  packets  of  26  cards 
nothing  remains,  —  0. 

In  the  second  operation  upon  the  packets  of  17  cards 
1  remains,  which  represents  the  point  in  the  centre  of 
the  circle  zero. 

Lastly,  in  the  third  operation  upon  the  packets  of  11 
cards  2  remain,  which  represent  Man. 

To  sum  up — 

0 — The  Circumference  of  the  Universe. 
1 — The  point  of  the  Centre-God. 
2— The  Male  and  the  Female.     Man. 

God,  Man,  and  the  Universe,  obtained  by  the  mystic 
system  of  Etteila  ! 

We  shall  never  end  if  we  try  to  follow  our  author  in  all 
the  deductions  he  makes  from  the  above  ;  let  us  content 
ourselves,  in  closing,  with  demonstrating  the  meaning 
which  he  gives  to  the  numbers  of  the  packets  which  have 
been  successively  placed  on  one  side. 

26— The  Soul. 
17— The  Spirit. 
11— The  Body. 

Finally,  the  remainder  of  the  cards  11  +  11  +  2  =  24  is 
Life. 

These  few  pages  will  suffice  to  give  the  student  a 
glimpse  of  Etteila's  method  of  proceeding.  We  have 
rendered  his  deductions  as  clearly,  and  presented  them 
as  methodically,  as  possible.  The  curious  had  better 
consult  his  work  on  the  subject — 

1  See,  for  an  explanation  of  these  packets  and  the  method  of 
obtaining  them,  Chapter  XX.  (6th  lesson). 


294  THE   TAROT. 

Collection  sur  les  Hautes  Sciences,  or  a  theoretical  and 
practical  treatise  upon  the  wisdom  magic  of  the  ancients, 
absolutely  complete  in  twelve  books,  which  contain  all  that 
Etteila  has  written  upon  the  Hermetic  philosophy,  the  art  of 
fortune-telling  by  cards  .  .  .  and  particularly  the  sublime  Book 
of  Thoth.     2  vols.  8vo.,  bound,  1780. 


EXAMPLE  OF   THE  APPLICATION   OF   THE 
TAROT  TO   THE   KABBALAH. 

THE  HÏEEOGRAM   OF   ADAM,   BY 

Stanislas  de  Guaita. 

In  asserting  that  the  hierogram  of  Adam  conceals  the 
most  profound  arcana  of  the  living  Universe,  we  shall 
not  astonish  those  who  have  made  a  serious  study  of  the 
Sepher  Bereschit.  By  comparing  the  admirable  translation 
of  Fabre  d'Olivet  with  the  pentacular  revelations  of  the 
Booh  of  Thoth,  it  is  not  impossible  to  strike  out  the 
supreme  light  of  truth.  Here  are  a  few  data  which  will 
aid  us  to  reach  it. 

Adam  £^N  is  written  in  Hebrew,  Aleph,  Daleth,  Mem. 

N  (1st  key  of  the  Tarot  :  The  Juggler).  God  and  man;  the 
Principle  and  the  end  ;  the  Equilibrant  Unity. 

1  (4th  key  of  the  Tarot  :  The  Emperor).  The  Power  and 
the  Kingdom  ;  the  verbal  Quaternary  ;  the  Multiplication  of 
the  cube. 

Û  (13th  key  of  the  Tarot  :  Death).  Destruction  and  Eestor- 
ation  ;  Night  and  Day,  moral  and  physical  ;  Eternity  and  the 
Ephemeral  ;  feminine  Passivity  ;  at  once  the  gulf  of  the  Past, 
the  matrix  of  the  Future. 

The  ternary  analysis  of  the  fathomless  principle  that 
Yod  manifests  in  its  inaccessible  and  synthetic  unity,  Adam 


THE  KABBALIST1C  TAROT.  295 

is,  in  fact,  very  analogous  to  the  hierogram  Aum,  which 
is  so  famous  in  the  sanctuaries  of  India. 

In  Ens,  Aleph  corresponds  to  the  Father,  the  source  of 
the  Trinity  ;  Daleth  to  the  Son  (whom  the  Kabbalah  also 
names  the  King)  ;  and  Mem  to  the  Holy  Spirit,  whose 
ethereal  body,  devouring  yet  fertilizing  transitory  forms, 
causes  life  (inexhaustible  and  unalterable  in  its  essence) 
to  blossom  upon  the  changing  hot-bed  of  Growth. 

I  have  said  that  ms  is  the  cyclic  analysis  of  the 
principle,  of  which  >  (Yod)  is  the  inaccessible  synthesis. 

A  simple  calculation  of  the  numerical  Kabbalah  confirms 
my  assertion.  Let  us  translate  the  letters  into  numbers 
(Tarotic  method). 

«1     li     72  13. 
1+4  +  13  =  18.     In  18,  1  +  8-9. 

In  Kabbalistic  absolute  numericals  the  analytical 
number  of  Adam  is  then  9.  Now  we  obtain  10  by 
adding  to  9  the  specific  unity  which  leads  the  cycle 
back  to  its  starting-point,  and  closes  analysis  in  synthesis, 
*and  10  is  the  number  which  corresponds  to  the  letter 
Yod:  this  we  were  anxious  to  prove. 

The  hierogram matic  vocable  DIS  (Adam)  then  repre- 
sents the  ninth  evolution  of  the  cycle,  which  emanated 
from  i  (Yod),  and  which  closes  in  10  by  returning  to  its 
starting-point.  Principle  and  end  of  all,  the  eternal  Yod. 
revealed  in  its  expanded  form  tertriune. 

Let  us  go  further  still. 

We  have  then  the  right  (noting,  however,  that  Adam 
differs  from  Yod,  or  from  Wodh,  as  the  totality  of  the 
sub-multiples  differ  from  the  Unity), — we  have  the  right 
to  say,  pursuing  our  analogies, 

If  Adam  be  equal  to  1, 


296  THE   TAROT. 

Adam-ah  =  I-ah  ;  and  Adam  Eve  =  I-eve.  He  (n) 
represents  Universal  Life,  natura  naturans ;  rh  then 
represents  Yod  united  to  Life,  and  ns*TS  (Adamah), 
Adam  united  to  Life.  This  is  the  union  of  the  Spirit 
and  of  the  Universal  Soul  at  two  different  degrees  (always 
remembering  the  distinction  noticed  above). 

Lastly,  in  mm  (IEVE),  as  in  mrrûlN  (Adam-Eve), 
Vau  (i)  represents  the  fecundity  of  this  union,  and  the 
last  He  (n)  symbolizes  natura  naturata  (issued  from 
natura  natiirans,  increased  by  the  mixed  principle). 

These  four  letters,  mm  (IEVE),  symbolize  the 
quaternary  of  Mercavah,  the  six  letters  of  Adam-Eve, 
mrrElN,  the  senary  of  Bereschith. 

(Fragment  of  the  Serpent  of  Genesis  published  in  the  Lotus 
of  March  1888,  p.  327,  and  328  note.) 


CHAPTER  XIX. 

LIST     OF     THE     AUTHORS     WHO   HAVE     INTERESTED    THEM- 
SELVES   IN    THE  TAROT. 

Raymond  Lulle — Cardan— Postel — The  Rosicrucians — Court  de 
Gébelin — Etteila — Claude  de  Saint-Martin — J.  A.  Vaillant — 
Christian — Eliphas  Levi — Stanislas  de  Gnaita — Joséphin  Péla- 
dan — The  Platonist — Theosophical  Publications — F.  Ch.  Barlet 
—Oswald  Wirth— Poirel— Ely  Star— H.  P.  Blavatsky— Ch.  de 
Sivry — Mathers. 

SOME  ACCOUNT 

OF    THE    AUTHORS    WHO    HAVE    SPECIALLY    INTERESTED    THEM- 
SELVES   IN    THE    TAROT. 

Eaymond  Lulle  (1235 — 1315),  an  eminently  learned  man,  the 
founder  of  a  system  of  philosophy,  but  chiefly  of  logic, 
entirely  based  upon  the  application  of  the  Tarot  ;  this  is  the 
Ars  Magna. 

Cardan  (Jérôme).  Born  in  Paris  in  1501,  died  in  1576.  Pro- 
fessor of  Mathematics  and  Medicine  at  Milan  and  Boulogne. 
Travelled  through  Scotland,  England,  and  France,  working 
miraculous  cures. 

His  treatise  On  Subtillty  (1550)  is  entirely  based  on  the  keys  of 
the  Tarot. 

Postel  (Guillaume).     Born  at  Dolerie  (diocese  of  Avranches) 


298  THE   TAROT. 

in  1510.  Sent  to  the  East  by  Francis  I.,  he  brought  back 
some  valuable  manuscripts,  and  was  appointed  Professor  of 
Mathematics  and  Oriental  Lano-uao;es  in  the  College  of  France. 
Died  in  the  Convent  of  Saint-Martin  des  Champs  in  1581. 
One  of  the  greatest  Initiates  of  the  sixteenth  century.  He 
discovered  the  key  to  the  Tarot,  but  did  not  disclose  the 
secret,  in  spite  of  the  promise  given  in  the  title  to  his  work, 
The  Key  to  the  Hidden  Mysteries  (1580).  A  list  of  his  works 
will  be  found  in  the  index. 

The  Mysterious   Fraternity  of   the    Rosicrucians  (1604). 

La  Fama  Fraternitatis  Rosœ  Crucis  (1613)  shows  the  Initiate 

that  the  Rosicrucians  possessed  the  Tarot,  which  is  described 

thus— 

They  possess  a  book  from  which  they  can  learn  everything  that 

is  in  the  books  already  written  and  to  be  written. 
We  must  not  forget  that  the  Rosicrucians  are  the  Initiators  of 
Leibnitz,  and  the  founders  of    actual    Freemasonry  through 
Asmhole. 
Court  de  Gébelin.     Born  at  Nîmes  in  1725,  died  at  Paris  in 
1784.     An  illustrious  scholar,  who  discovered  the  Egyptian 
origin  of  the  Tarot.     Consult  his  Primitive   World  (1773 — 
1783). 
Etteila  (1783).      We  have  given  a  summary  of  his  work  upon 
Fortune-telling  with  the  Tarot,  and  upon  the  application  of 
this  work  to  the  Kabbalah. 
Claude  de  Saint-Martin.     The  unknown  philosopher.     Born 
in  1743  at  Amboise,  died  in  1803.     The  disciple  of  Martinez 
Pasqualis  and  Jacob   Bcehm,   the    founder   of    the   so-called 
Martinist  order.    His  book,  the  Tableau  Naturel  des  Rapports 
qui  existent  entre  Dieu,  V Homme  et  V  Univers,  is  based  upon 
the  Tarot. 
J.   A.  Vaillant.     Lived  many   years   with   the  Gypsies,  and 
received  a   great  many  of  their  traditions  orally:  these   are 
contained  in  his  works — 


LIST   OF   AUTHORS.  299 

Les  Bornes,  Histoire  vraie  des  vrais  Bohémiens  (towards  1853). 

La  Bible  des  Bohémiens  (1860). 

Clef  Magique  de  la  Fiction  et  du  Fait  (1863). 

Christian.  Librarian  of  the  Arsenal.  Has  published  an  occnlt 
manuscript  upon  the  Tarot,  blending  with  it  his  personal 
reflections  upon  astrology  in — 

V Homme  Rouge  des  Tuileries  (1854). 

Eliphas  Levi.  Amongst  contemporary  Masters  of  Occultism, 
he  had  the  greatest  knowledge  of  the  Tarot.  His  work  Dogme 
et  Rituel  deUa  Haute  Magie  (1S61,  2  vols.,  8vo.)  is  based  upon 
the  keys  of  the  Tarot.  Eliphas  Levi  had  a  most  romantic 
life,  and  died  in  1870,  leaving  a  son  (I  believe). 

Stanislas  de  Guaita.     Contemporary  Kabbalistic  scholar.     He 
«  made  several  applications  of  the  Tarot  to  the  Kabbalah.     We 
have  given  one  extract  of  them  already.     Consult  also,  Au 
Seuil  du  Mystère  (1886),  and  Le  Serpent  de  la  Genèse. 

Joséphin  Péladan.  A  clever  novelist  and  eminent  Kabbalist. 
He  often  wrote  upon  the  Tarot  in  his  works  (1885 — 1889). 

"The  Platonist"  (1888).  Eeview  of  American  Occultism.  It 
contained  a  poor  study  upon  the  application  of  the  Tarot  to 
horoscopy.     This  essay  has  been  reproduced  in  the 

Tlieosophical  Publications.  Small  pamphlets  called  "Siftings," 
No.  14  (London  1888)  (7,  Duke  Street). 

E.  Ch.  Barlet.  One  of  the  most  learned  and  most  highly- 
esteemed  authorities  amongst  French  Occultists.  The  sum- 
mary of  one  of  his  works  on  the  Tarot  Initiatique  (1889)  is 
quoted  in  extenso,  page  253. 

Oswald  Wirth  has  studied  the  astronomical  Tarot  (see 
Chapter  XVI.),  and  has  carefully  reproduced  the  twenty- 
two  symbolical  figures,  according  to  the  most  recent  informa- 
tion obtainable  upon  Symbolism  (1889). 


300  THE   TAROT. 

E.  PoiREL.  Occultist.  Editor  of  the  Tarot  cV  Oswald  Wirth 
(1889). 

Ely  Star.  An  author  known  by  his  interesting  work  upon 
Astrology,  the  Mystères  de  l'Horoscope  (Dentu,  1888).  It 
contains  a  chapter  upon  the  Tarot. 

H.  P.  Blavatsky.  This  author,  rendered  eminent  by  her  works 
upon  Theosophy,  mentions  the  Tarot  in  her  books  (Isis 
Unveiled  and  the  Secret  Doctrine),  but  very  superficially  and 
without  any  synthetic  basis. 

Ch.  de  Sivry.  A  very  talented  occultist,  chiefly  known  by  his 
works  upon  music.  To  his  kindness  we  owe  the  summary  of 
a  Tarot  Bohémien  entitled — 

Extract  from  the  sacred  book  of  the  Opâchti  tribe,  the  primitive 
family,  which  adored  Otchâvâtri,  representing  the  only  God 
Otchawatra.     This  tribe  lived  at  the  foot  of  the  Himalaya. 

This  book  describes  the  symbolism  of  the  twenty-two  arcana, 
according  to  the  Gypsies,  with  interesting  details  upon 
esoterism. 

Mathers,  an  English  author,  has  recently  published  a  short 
account  of  the  Tarot,  which  contains  nothing  very  original  :  it 
is  rather  a  summary  of  the  principal  authors  who  have  studied 
the  question.  It  is  chiefly  written  as  an  aid  to  fortune-telling 
by  cards. 

This  closes  the  list  of  authors  whose  books  we  have 
heard  of,  and  who  have  alluded  to  the  Tarot  or  used  its  keys. 
We  may  have  omitted  some  of  them,  if  so  we  must  beg 
them  to  excuse  us. 


CHAPTER  XX. 

THE   DIVINING   TAROT   IN   SEVEN   LESSONS. 

Introduction:  To  our  Lady  Readers — Astronomy  and  Astrology — 
Intuition — Fortune-telling  by  the  Tarot  in  Seven  Lessons. 

1st  Lesson:  Simplification  of  the  Rules  of  Fortune-telling  by  the 
Tarot. 

2nd  Lesson  :  Minor  Areana — Significations — A  good  Memory  un- 
necessary for  their  retention — Key  to  the  Divining  Tarot — 
Sceptres — Cups — Swords — Pentacles. 

3rd  Lesson:  Major  Arcana — Significations  from  a  Divining  Point  of 
View. 

4th  Lesson:  Basis  of  the  Application  of  this  Knowledge — Arrange- 
ment of  the  Cards. 

5th  Lesson  :  Reading  the  Tarot — Rapid  Process — Elaborate  Process. 

6th  Lesson  :  Etteila's  original  and  unpublished  Method  of  reading  the 
Tarot  (from  one  of  his  rarest  works)  :  1st  deal — 2nd  deal — 3rd 
deal — 4th  deal. 

1th  Lesson  :  Conclusion — Bibliography. 

THE  DIVINING  TAROT. 

INTRODUCTION. 

To  our  Lady  Readers — Astronomy  and  Astrology — Intuition 
— Fortune-telling  hy  the  Tarot  in  Seven  Lessons. 

The  first  part  of  our  study  of  the  Tarot,  full  of  numbers, 
of  Hebrew  letters,  and  abstract  deductions,  is  not  calcu- 
lated to  attract  the  attention  of  ladies.     But  if  women 


302  THE   TAROT. 

enjoy  mystery  and  idealism,  prefer  and  excuse  the  flights 
of  a  vivid  imagination,  men  exact  precision  and  method 
in  studies  of  this  kind,  and  I  have  therefore  built  this 
arsenal  of  technical  arguments  for  them,  confining  imagin- 
ation in  the  narrow  limits  of  deduction  ;  so  that,  if  she 
has  sometimes  escaped  and  scattered  the  brilliant  gems 
of  illusion  over  the  course  of  my  work,  the  escape  was  only 
made  with  great  trouble,  and  in  spite  of  my  efforts  to 
retain  her.  It  is,  however,  traditional  that  the  future  can 
be  read  through  the  Tarot,  and  our  feminine  readers  will 
never  forgive  me  if  I  ignore  their  natural  curiosity  on 
this  point. 

I  have  therefore  decided  to  approach  this  delicate 
question,  and  I  hope  that  the  pleasure  gained  by  the  fair 
inquirers  will  balance  the  scepticism  of  sterner  intellects. 
It  is  true  that  I  can  quote  the  opinion  of  all  the  writers 
of  antiquity,  who  assert  that  the  Egyptians  used  the  Tarot 
as  a  means  of  predicting  the  future,  and  that  the  Jews  also 
employed  it  to  confirm  their  prophecies.  But  in  my 
opinion  an  important  distinction  should  be  made  on  this 
subject. 

Unquestionably  the  Egyptians  predicted  the  future 
through  the  Tarot  ;  but  they  used  its  astronomical  appli- 
cations only.  Nothing  was  left  to  chance.  Thus,  knowing 
that  most  of  the  important  events  which  take  place  upon 
the  earth  are  determined  by  the  magnetic  currents  pro- 
duced by  the  position  of  the  earth  at  the  moment  that  the 
event  takes  place,  these  learned  men  first  denned  the 
relations  existing  between  the  position  of  the  stars  in  the 
heavens,  and  the  circumstances  they  created  upon  the 
earth.  Since  the  stars  accomplish  fixed  revolutions,  that 
is  to  say,  that  they  return  to  the  same  position  at  the  end 
of  a  certain  number  of  years,  which  are  mathematically 


THE   DIVINING  TAROT.  303 

determinable,  the  Egyptians  thought  that  the  same  events 
would  be  also  reproduced  at  fixed  intervals.  It  would 
therefore  suffice  to  know  the  movements  of  the  stars,  to 
predict  the  coming  events.  This  is  why  astronomy  was  only 
the  commencement  of  astrology. 

As  the  Taiot  reproduced  the  movements  of  the  stars 
upon  a  table,  we  can  easily  guess  how  the  ancients  pro- 
ceeded when  they  read  prophecy  by  its  aid.  They  drew 
up  the  Horoscope  of  the  coming  year,  according  to  the 
position  which  the  stars  would  occupy  during  its  course, 
and  could  then  at  once  predict  two-thirds  of  the  events 
likely  to  occur.  Fabre  d'Olivet  in  his  works  shows  that 
one-third  of  the  events  are  Determined,  another  third 
depend  upon  the  Human  Will,  and  the  last  third  is  subject 
to  Providence.  As  the  determining  Fatality  and  the 
human  Will  usually  unite,  almost  unconsciously,  we  see 
that  the  astrological  Horoscope  can  predict  two -thirds  of 
the  events. 

Later  on  reliable  data  were  lost,  and  men  commenced 
to  read  fortunes  by  chance,  without  using  any  scientific 
method.  The  astrological  systems,  called  onomantic,  that 
is  to  say,  which  use  the  numbers  formed  by  the  letters 
of  the  name  and  pronoun  of  the  individual,  are  generally 
false,  and  produce  no  practical  results.  For  this  reason 
the  astrological  system  described  by  Christian  can  be 
regarded  only  as  a  deceitful,  lying  dream.  The  truth  of 
the  predictions,  then,  depends  upon  the  intuition  of  the 
prophet,  and  this  leads  us  to  consider  the  differences  which 
may  be  noticed  between  the  predictions  of  fortune-tellers. 

Intuition  plays  the  most  important  part  when  the  more 
exact  methods  disappear,  and  therefore  woman's  nature, 
which  is  essentially  intuitive,  is  well  qualified  to  read  these 
divinations. 


304  THE   TAROT. 

The  discussion  of  the  wherefore  of  all  this  would  lead  us 
much  too  far  from  our  subject.  We  cannot  either  teach 
astrology  by  the  Tarot  in  a  few  pages — a  whole  volume 
is  necessary  for  this  purpose — nor  have  we  the  time  to 
handle  these  difficult  subjects.  Perhaps  we  may  decide 
to  undertake  them  some  day. 

However,  we  see  that  chance  and  intuition  are  the  chief 
instruments  in  divination  by  the  Tarot,  as  it  is  usually 
practised  at  the  present  time.  We  must  therefore  aid  our 
readers  to  undertake  it  for  themselves,  and  will  now 
explain  the  most  simple  principles  of  the  art,  dividing  them 
into  seven  lessons,  so  as  to  render  them  as  clear  as 
possible. 

We  will  arrange  them  so  that  they  may  be  complete, 
and  therefore  it  will  be  unnecessary  to  read  all  the  pre- 
ceding abstract  studies  before  using  the  Tarot  from  this 
point  of  view.  Lastly,  we  will  explain  the  principal 
methods  used  by  masters  in  the  art  of  fortune-telling,  so 
as  to  enable  our  readers  to  become  adepts  in  the  pre- 
diction of  the  future.  But  we  must  remind  them  that 
science  has  little  empire  over  the  subject,  and  that 
imagination  and  intuition  reign  over  this  charming 
domain. 


FIRST  LESSON. 

SIMPLIFICATION   OF   THE   RULES   OF    FORTUNE-TELLING  BY 

THE   TAROT. 

The  great  difficulty  encountered  by  a  beginner  in  the 
study  of  divination  by  the  Tarot,  is  the  number  of  meanings 
to  be  remembered  in  reading  the  cards. 

Open  any  treatise  upon  this  subject,  and  you  will  see 
that  you  must  first  learn  the  different  significations  of  the 
78  cards  of  the  Tarot.  Then  you  must  learn  the  significa- 
tions of  these  78  cards  reversed,  without  counting  the 
meetings  and  other  complications,  which  bring  them  to 
about  200  different  meanings,  which  must  be  retained  in 
the  memory  before  any  one  can  become  a  good  fortune- 
teller by  cards.  Habit  only  will  enable  the  student  to 
remember  all  these  details,  and  in  this  case  intuition 
becomes  an  important  aid  to  the  memory. 

Now  this  complication  always  points  to  an  imperfect 
system.  Nature  is  synthetic  in  its  manifestations,  and 
simplicity  is  always  found  at  the  bottom  of  the  most 
outwardly  complicated  phenomena.  Whilst  admitting 
that  our  work  upon  the  Tarot  may  be  erroneous,  no  one 
can  deny  the  absolute  simplicity  of  the  constituent  prin- 
ciples.    We  will  therefore  apply  the  same  method  to  the 


306  THE  TAROT. 

divining  Tarot,  and  endeavour  to  establish  a  system  which 
will  enable  us  to  dispense  with  memory  almost  entirely, 
or  at  least  to  considerably  reduce  its  work.  We  shall  thus 
allow  a  certain  scope  for  scientific  data,  although  we  are 
unwilling  to  create  any  prejudice  by  this  influence,  con- 
sidering the  subject  we  are  dealing  with. 

The  first  point  to  retain  from  the  commencement  of 
this  study  is  the  necessity  for  clear,  simple  rules,  by  which 
the  divining  Tarot  may  be  read.  We  will  explain  them 
in  the  following  lessons. 


SECOND  LESSON. 

MINOR  ARCANA. 
SIGNIFICATION   FROM  THE   DIVINING   POINT   OF  VIEW. 

The  Tarot  pack  is  composed  of  78  cards  or  plates  ; 
22  of  them  bear  symbolical  names  (the  Juggler,  Sun, 
Moon,  Hanged  Man,  etc.),  and  they  should  be  separated 
from  the  56  others,  which  are  divided  into  four  great 
series  :  Sceptres,  Cups,  Swords,  and  Pentacles. 

These  four  series  each  contain  14  cards  (King,  Queen, 
Knight,  Knave,  Ace,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9  and  10),  corre- 
sponding with  the  four  series  of  common  playing  cards 
(clubs,  hearts,  spades,  diamonds),  but  called  Sceptres,  Cups, 
Swords,  Pentacles.     These  are  the  Minor  Arcana. 

The  22  symbolical  cards  are  the  Major  Arcana  or  Great 
Arcana. 

1.  Minor  arcana,  formed  of  four  sequences  of  14 
cards  each,  or  56  cards  in  all. 

2.  Major  arcana,  formed  of  22  cards. 

These  are  the  two  great  divisions  which  must  first  be 
remembered. 

We  have  already  said  that  the  minor  arcana  were 
divided  into  four  sequences  :  Sceptres,  Cups,  Swords, 
Pentacles.  Each  of  these  series  represents  one  of  the  four 
great  principles,  as  follows — 


308  •  THE   TAROT. 

The  Sceptres    represent  Enterprise  and  Glory. 

The  Cups  —  Love  and  Happiness. 

The  Swords  —  Hatred  and  Misfortune. 

The  Pentacles       —  Money  and  Interest. 

Enterprise,  Love,  Hatred,  Fortune,  are  the  four 
great  principles  which  must  be  remembered. 

If  you  now  take  one  of  these  packets  of  14  cards,  you 
will  see  that  it  is  formed  of  four  figures,  and  of  10  other 
cards,  which  bear  numbers  formed  by  the  symbols. 

We  will  first  look  at  the  4  figures — 

The  King  represents    Man. 
Tlie  Queen  —  Woman. 

The  Knight  —  A  Young  Man. 

The  Knave  —  A  Child. 

The  Man  represents  the  creator,  the  one  who  undertakes 
the  enterprises  ;  the  woman  characterizes  love  ;  the  young 
man,  conflict,  struggle,  rivalry,  hatred  ;  the  child  symbolizes 
the  absolute  neuter,  the  second  He,  which  varies  according 
to  circumstances,  money,  which  addresses  itself  to  all,  and 
applies  itself  to  all,  universal  transition.  Man,  Woman, 
Young  Man,  Child,  are  therefore  the  same  symbols  applied 
to  the  family  as  the  four  great  principles  applied  to 
humanity,  and  to  know  them  in  one  case  is  to  know  them 
in  the  other. 

To  sum  up  all  this,  we  may  say  that  the  first  element 
represents  the  positive,  the  second  the  negative,  the  third 
the  opposition  between  the  two  ;  finally,  the  last  the 
absolute  neuter  ;  and  these  elements  are  symbolized  by  the 
four  figures  of  each  of  the  minor  arcana. 

But  even  as  the  cards  are  divided  into  two  colours,  red 
and  black,  so  humanity  is  divided  into  dark  and  fair. 

The  eight  figures  of  the  Sceptres  and  Swords  therefore 


THE  DIVINING  TAROT  309 

represent  dark  people,  the  eight  figures  of  the  Cups  and 
Pentacles,  fair  people. 

The  figures  of  the  Sceptres  and  Cups  are  good  ;  of  the 
Swords  and  Pentacles,  had. 

We  shall  presently  repeat  this  in  connection  with  each 
colour,  and  will  now  recapitulate  the  meanings  of  the 
four  figures  of  the  Sceptres. 

King  of  Sceptres  :  Dark  man  ;  good  ;  a  friend. 
Queen  of  Sceptres  :  Dark  woman  ;  good. 
Knight  of  Sceptres  :  Dark  young  man  ;  good. 
Knave  of  Sceptres  :  Dark  child  or  messenger  ;  good. 

Besides  our  four  figures  we  have  to  consider  the  10 
cards  bearing  numbers.  How  can  we  discover  the 
meaning  of  these  10  cards,  and  above  all  how  can  we 
recall  it  ? 

We  have  nothing  new  to  learn,  but  need  only  apply  all 
that  we  already  know.  We  divide  our  10  cards  into  four 
packets  :  three  packets  of  3  cards  each,  and  one  packet 
formed  of  a  single  card,  the  10th.  When  this  is  done  we 
say— 

The  first  packet  of  3  cards,  formed  of  the  ace,  2,  and 
3,  will  have  the  same  meaning  as  the  Man,  enterprise, 
commencement,  the  creation  of  some  undertaking  (enter- 
prise, love,  hatred,  or  money). 

The  second  packet,  composed  of  the  4,  5,  and  6,  repre- 
sents Woman,  and  all  the  ideas  of  negation,  of  reflection, 
associated  with  her;  that  is  to  say,  the  opposite  of  man, 
antagonism,  opposition  in  any  matter. 

The  third  packet  signifies  the  equilibrium  which  results 
from  the  action  of  the  two  opposites  upon  each  other, 
represented  by  the  Young  Man. 


310  THE   TAROT. 

Lastly,  the  Child,  the  absolute  neuter,  will  be  represented 
by  the  10th  card. 

Each  of  the  3  cards  in  these  packets  have  the  same 
meaning. 

The  first  card  of  these  3  packets  will  indicate  the  com- 
mencement; the  second,  opposition,  antagonism  ;  the  third, 
equilibrium,  which  gives  us  the  following  general  sequence 
in  our  10  cards. 

KEY   TO   THE   DIVINING   TAEOT. 

1.  Commencement 

2.  Opposition  \  of  Commencement. 

3.  Equilibrium 

4.  Commencement 

5.  Opposition  J-  of  Opposition. 

6.  Equilibrium 

7.  Commencement 

8.  Opposition  J-  of  Equilibrium. 

9.  Equilibrium 
10.  Undetermined  :  The  card  which  follows  will  explain  it. 

Thus  the  three  words,  Commencement,  Opposition, 
Equilibrium,  the  synonyms  of  Thesis,  Antithesis,  Synthesis, 
or  of  Brahma,  Siva,  Vishnu,  etc.,  suffice  for  the  explanation 
of  all  the  minor  arcana  of  the  Tarot.  We  need  only  add 
the  words  love,  hatred,  enterprise  or  fortune  to  each  of 
the  series,  and  we  can  define  the  meaning  of  every  card 
without  wearying  the  memory.     This  we  will  now  do. 


THE  DIVINING  TAROT. 


311 


Queen. 


Knight. 
Knave. 


SIGNIFICATION    OF   THE   FOUR   SERIES   OF   THE  MINOR 
ARCANA   IN   THE   DIVINING   TAROT. 

SCEPTRES. 

Creation.     Enterprise.     Agriculture. 

King.  The  King  of  Sceptres  symbolizes  a  dark  man, 

a  friend.    He  generally  represents  a  married 
man,  the  father  of  a  family. 

A  dark  woman,  a  friend.  Represents  a  serious 
woman,  a  very  good  counsellor,  often  the 
mother  of  a  family. 

A  dark  young  man,  a  friend. 

A  dark  child,  a  friend.     Also  represents  a 
message  from  a  near  relation. 
Ace  of  Sceptres.   Commencement  of  an  Enterprise. 
Two.  Opposition  to  the  commencement  of  the  Enter 

prise. 

The  Enterprise  is  commenced  when  an  un- 
expected  obstacle   suddenly   prevents   its 
execution. 
Realization  of  the  commencement  of  the  Enter- 
prise. 

The  basis  of  the  work  is  now  definitely 
established,  and  the  undertaking  can  be 
fearlessly  continued. 

Obstacles  to  the  Enterprise. 

Nothing  can  be  accomplished  without  ob- 
stacles. We  therefore  now  find  them 
appearing,  and  must  prepare  ourselves  to 
overcome  them. 

Opposition  to  the  obstacles.  Victory  after 
surmounting  them. 


Three. 


Four. 


Five. 


312  THE  TAROT.      . 

Six.  Realization  of  the  opposition. 

At  last  the  obstacles  succeed.     Failure  of  the 
Enterprise  in  the  midst  of  its  execution. 

Seven.  Certain  success  to  the  Enterprise. 

Eight.  Opposition  to  its  success.     The  Enterprise  will 

only  partially  succeed. 

Nine.  Realization  of  success.     Success  is  continued. 

Ten.  Uncertainty  in  the  management  of  the  Enter- 

prise. 

CUPS. 

Preservation.     Love.     Instruction. 

Knowing  the  meaning  of  one  series,  we  know  à  priori 
the  significations  of  the  three  others.  We  shall  however 
give  them  in  order  to  facilitate  the  work. 

King  of  Cups.  A  fair  man,  a  friend.  This  card  also  repre- 
sents a  barrister,  judge,  or  ecclesiastic.  It 
symbolizes  a  Bachelor. 

Queen  of  Cups.    A  fair  woman,  a  friend.     The  woman  loved. 

The  Mistress. 

Knight  of  Cups.  A  young  fair  man,  a  friend.  The  young  man 
loved.     The  Lover. 

Knave  of  Cups.     A  fair  child.     A  messenger.     Birth. 

Ace  of  Cups.         Commencement  of  a  love  affair. 

Two.  Opposition  to  this  commencement.    Unimport- 

ant obstacles  raised  by  one  of  the  lovers. 

Three.  Realization  of  this  commencement.     The  love 

is  mutual. 

Four.  Serious  obstacles  to  the  love.     They  arise  from 

other  persons,  not  from  the  lovers. 

Five.  '         Opposition  to  the  obstacles.     Victory  over  the 

obstacles  after  a  struggle. 


THE   DIVINING  TAROT.  313 

Six.  The  obstacles  triumph.    Love  destroyed  in  the 

midst  of  happiness.      Widowhood. 

Seven.  Success  assured  to  the  lovers. 

Eight.  Partial  failure  of  love.     Love  only  partially 

succeeds. 

Nine.  Motherhood. 

Ten.  Uncertainty  in  the  management  of  the  love 

affair. 

SWORDS. 

Transformation.     Hatred.      War. 

King  op  Swords.    A    dark,    bad   man.      He    is    a  soldier,   a 

powerful  enemy,  who  must  be  distrusted. 

Queen  op  Swords.  A  dark  wicked  woman.  The  card  also  indi- 
cates her  actions,  gossip  and  calumnies. 

Knight.  A  young,  dark  man,  an  enemy.     He  is  also 

a  spy. 
Knave.  A  child,  an  enemy.     Bad  news.     Delay. 

The  figures  generally  indicate  opposition  raised  outside 
the  house. 

Ace  op  Swords.     Commencement  of  enmity. 

Two.  Opposition    to    this    commencement.       The 

enmity  does  not  last. 
Three.  Realization  of  the  enmity.     Hatred. 

Four.  Opposition  to  the  hatred.     Success  against 

the  enemy. 
Five.  Opposition  to  this  opposition.     The  enemy 

triumphs  at  the  moment  one  fancies  the 

victory  is  secured. 
Six.  Equilibrium  of  the  opposition.     The  enemy 

is  rendered  powerless  at  last. 
Seven.  Success  assured  to  the  enemy. 


314  THE   TAROT. 

Eight.  Partial    opposition   to    this   success.      The 

enemy  only  partially  triumphs. 
Nine.  Certain  duration  of  the  hatred. 

Ten.  Uncertainty  in  the  enmity. 


PENTACLES. 

Development.     Money.     Trade. 

King  of  Pentacles.  A  fair  man,  inimical  or  indifferent. 
Queen  of  Pentacles.  A  fair  woman,  indifferent,  or  inimical. 
Knight.  A    young,  fair  man.     A   stranger.     An 

arrival. 
Knave.  A  fair  child.     A  messenger.     A  letter. 

The  figures  of  the  Pentacles  are  inverse  to  those  of  the 
Sceptres  and  Cups,  and  indicate  all  that  comes  from 
outside,  from  the  country  or  abroad. 

Ace  of  Pentacles.     Commencement  of  fortune.     Inheritance. 

Gifts.     Economy,  etc.,  etc. 

Two.  Opposition  to  this  commencement.     Diffi- 

culty in  well  establishing  the  first  land- 
marks of  good  fortune. 

Three.  Realization    of    this    commencement    of 

fortune.     A  small  sum. 

Four.  Opposition  of  fortune.     Loss  of  money. 

Five.  Opposition  to  this  opposition.     A  success 

coming  which  will  balance  the  loss. 

Six.  Eealization  of  the  opposition.     Ruin. 

Seven.  Success  assured.     A  large  fortune. 

Eight.  Partial  success.     Great  loss  of  money  at 

the    moment   apparently   of    definitely 
securing  the  fortune. 


THE   DIVINING   TAROT.  315 

Nine.  Equilibrium  of  Equilibrium.     A  durable 

fortune. 
Ten.  Uncertainty  in  the  fortune.    Great  success 

and  great  reverses. 

As  a  whole,  we  see  the  same  series  always  repeating 
themselves.  It  therefore  requires  little  time  to 
thoroughly  learn  the  meaning  of  the  minor  arcana,  even 
without  much  memory.  We  advise  those  readers  who 
fear  they  may  forget  them,  to  simply  write  the  meaning 
on  the  cards  themselves.  However,  professional  card 
readers  are  careful  not  to  do  this,  for  intuition  often  leads 
them  to  an  interpretation  which  differs  from  the  exact 
meaning  of  the  card. 


THIRD   LESSON. 

MAJOR   ARCANA. 
SIGNIFICATION   FROM  THE   DIVINING   POINT   OF    VIEW. 

We  now  know  the  signification  of  the  minor  arcana,  and 
need  only  study  the  major  arcana. 

As  we  have  already  stated,  the  major  arcana  consist  of 
22  symbolical  cards,  which  we  have  not  yet  examined  as 
a  means  of  predicting  the  future. 

Their  meaning  is  very  easy  to  remember,  if  any  one  will 
take  the  trouble  to  consider  them  carefully  one  by  one,  as 
their  signification  is  described. 

One  general  rule  will  also  aid  the  memory  in  this 
matter,  that  is,  that  the  seven  first  cards  chiefly  refer  to 
the  intellectual  side  of  man,  the  seven  next  to  his  moral 
mole,  and  the  seven  last  to  the  various  events  of  his  material 
life. 

We  will  now  give  the  signification  of  these  22  cards  of 
our  Tarot — 

1.  The  Juggler  signifies  Male  Inquirer. 

2.  The  High  Priestess       —      Female  Inquirer. 

3.  The  Empress  —      Action.     Initiative. 

4.  The  Emperor  —      Will. 

5.  The  Pope  —      Inspiration. 

6.  The  Lovers  —      Love. 


THE   DIVINING  TAROT. 


317 


7.  The  Chariot 

8.  Justice 

9.  The  Hermit 

10.  The  Wheel  of  Fortune 

11.  Strength 

12.  The  Hanged  Man 

13.  Death 

14.  Temperance 

15.  T/ie  DemZ 

16.  T/ie  Lightning-struck 

Tower 

17.  7%e  Store 

18.  The  Moon 

19.  The  Sun 

20.  T/ie  Judgment 

21.  T/ie  JfaoZM  Ifan 

22.  7%e  Universe 


Triumph.      Providential  Pro- 
tection. 
Justice. 
Prudence. 
Fortune.     Destiny. 
Strength.     Fortitude. 
Trials.     Sacrifice. 
Death. 

Temperance.     Economy. 
Immense  Force.     Illness. 
Ruin.     Deception. 

Hope. 

Hidden  Enemies.     Danger. 

Material  Happiness.  Lucky 
Marriage. 

Change  of  Position. 

Inconsiderate  Actions.  Mad- 
ness. 

Assured  Success. 


FOURTH  LESSON. 

BASIS   OF   THE  APPLICATION   OF   THESE   DATA. 
ARRANGEMENT   OF   THE   CARDS. 

We  are  now  in  a  position  to  handle  the  Tarot  as  a  means 
of  divination. 

But  before  we  attempt  to  read  it,  we  must  settle  how 
to  arrange  the  cards  upon  the  table. 

To  know  the  meaning  of  the  cards  is  only  the  first  step 
in  the  art  of  cartomancy  ;  to  know  how  to  arrange  them 
is  still  more  important.  As  a  fact,  the  astronomical  data 
should  not  be  lost  sight  of,  and  the  Tarot  ought  only  to 
be  used  to  represent  the  revolutions  of  the  stars,  the 
source  of  future  events  ;  but  that  is  the  realm  of  Astrology, 
and  we  must  confine  ourselves  to  that  of  telling  fortunes 
by  the  Tarot  cards,  and  their  combinations  depend  a  little 
upon  chance. 

We  shall,  however,  give  as  many  reliable  elements  in 
this  study  as  possible.  We  need  only  look  back  to  the 
commencement  of  the  third  part  (Key  to  the  Applications 
of  the  Tarot),  to  see  that  the  human  life  passes  through 
the  four  great  periods  of — 

Childhood. 
Youth. 
Maturity. 
Old  Age. 


THE  DIVINING  TAROT.  319 

If  the  student  is  not  interested  in  Human  Life,  and 
simply  wishes  to  see  the  evolution  of  an  event,  it  will  also 
pass  through  four  great  evolutions — 

Commencement. 
Apogee. 
Decline. 
Fall. 

We  must  then  first  determine,  in  our  arrangement  of 
the  cards,  four  points  facing  each  other  in  pairs,  upon 
which  we  can  afterwards  place  the  cards  which  are  to 
reveal  the  future  to  us. 

This,  therefore,  is  our  first  point  :  the  determination  of 
the  four  places  'which  the  cards  will  occupy. 


4 

Apogee 

Youth 

1 

3 

Commencement 

Decline 

Childhood 

2 

Fall 

Maturity 

Old  Age 

• 

We  must  notice  that  the  disposition  of  the  points  goes 
from  left  to  right.  This  is  seen  by  the  order  of  the  numbers, 
whilst  the  symbols  are  read  from  right  to  left. 

The  Human  Life  or  the  Event  moves  in  three  very 
distinct  periods — 

The  Past. 
The  Present. 
The  Future. 

Which  gives  us  a  new  figure  as  follows — 


320 


THE  TAROT. 

4 

Future 


The  Inquirer  is  found  in  the  Centre.  The  arrangement 
of  the  triangle  follows  that  of  the  figures  and  not  of  the 
symbols. 

However,  since  four  points  are  not  enough  to  reproduce 
the  movement  of  the  sun  exactly,  wTe  take,  for  important 
readings  of  the  Tarot,  twelve  points  which  correspond 
with  the  twelve  months  of  the  year.  The  figure  already 
obtained  will,  at  any  rate,  serve  as  a  means  of  consulting 
the  Tarot  upon  small  events.  But  we  can  also  get  the 
following  figure,  which  we  must  remember  for  the  arrange- 
ment of  our  cards  when  we  wish  to  inquire  about  great 
events  or  the  course  of  a  lifetime. 


THE  DIVINING 

TAROT. 

10 

11 

IL 

9 

12 

Apogee 

8 

V. 

Future 

VI. 

Commence- 

\           Inquirer 

III. 

Decline 

ment 

^     \          / 
VII. 

2 

IV. 

Fall 

6 

321 


This  figure,  which  is  very  important  and  should  be 
carefully  studied,  is  composed  of  three  circles, 

1.  An  outside  circle,  formed  of  twelve,  houses,  filled  by  the 
minor  arcana.  The  houses  are  arranged  from  left  to  right  ; 
this  is  shown  by  the  numbers. 

2.  A  second  intermediate  circle,  composed  of  four  houses, 
arranged  from  right  to  left. 

3.  A  central  circle,  formed  by  the  triangle,  and  contain- 
ing a  house  at  each  point,  giving  three  houses  in  the  circle. 

The  last  three  houses  and  the  four  preceding  ones  will 
be  filled  by  the  mccjor  arcana. 

The  Inquirer  will  be  in  the  centre  of  the  figure. 


FIFTH  LESSON. 

FORTUNE-TELLING   BY   THE   TAROT. 

I. — Rapid  Process  : 

What  must  we  do  if  we  wish  to  draw  out  the  horoscope 
of  any  matter  ? 

1.  You  should  take  the  minor  arcana  and  separate  the 
suit  of  cards  that  refers  to  the  kind  of  consultation  you 
require. 

If  it  is  some  business  you  are  about  to  undertake,  you 
must  take  the  Sceptres  or  Diamonds. 

If  it  is  a  love  affair,  take  the  Cups  or  Hearts. 

For  a  law-suit,  or  any  struggle,  take  Swords  or  Spades. 

In  a  money  matter,  the  Pentacles  or  Clubs. 

2.  Shuffle  the  cards  selected,  then  ask  the  Inquirer  to 
cut  them. 

3.  Take  the  four  first  cards  from  the  top  of  the  pack, 
and  without  looking  at  them  place  them  in  a  cross  in  the 
following  way,  from  left  to  right,  as  shown  by  the  numbers. 

4 

1  3 

2 

4.  Then  take  your  major  arcana  (which  should  always 
be  separated  from  the  minor  arcana),  shuffle  them,  and  let 
them  be  cut  for  you. 


THE  DIVINING  TAROT.  323 

5.  You  then  ask  the  Inquirer  to  draw  out  seven  cards 
from  the  major  arcana  by  chance,  and  to  give  them  to  you 
without  looking  at  them. 

6.  Shuffle  these  seven  cards,  and  when  the  Inquirer  has 
cut  them,  take  the  three  top  cards,  and  without  looking  at 
them  arrange  them  in  a  triangle,  in  the  following  order — 

I.  II. 

III. 

You  thus  obtain  the  following  figure — 

4 

Major  Arcana 

I.  .  II. 


III. 


\ 


^ 


> 


a 


2 


7.  Take  up  the  cards  so  that  you  can  see  them  and 
read  the  oracles,  noticing  that  the  card  placed  at  number 
1  indicates  the  commencement. 

The  card  placed  at  number  2  indicates  the  apogee,  at 
number  3  the  obstacles,  lastly,  at  number  4  the  fall. 

The  major  arcanum  placed  at  I.  indicates  the  influences 
that  have  weighed  in  the  affair  during  the  Past. 

The  major  arcanum  in  II.  indicates  the  influence  exerted 
over  the  Present. 

The  arcanum  at  number  III.  shows  the  influence  which 
will  affect  and  determine  the  Future. 

These  cards  can  be  very  rapidly  deciphered  when  the 
habit  is  once  acquired.  But  one  important  point  should 
be  noted,  that  when  the  rapid  process  is  used  for  fortune- 


324  THE  TAROT. 

telling,  the  figures  do  not  exclusively  represent  persons  of 
especial  complexion.  The  King  represents  a  man,  without 
any  other  distinction,  the  Queen  a  woman,  the  Knight  a 
young  man,  and  the  Knave  a  child. 

II. — A  MORE   ELABORATE   PROCESS  : 

1.  Shuffle  all  the  minor  arcana  together  and  let  them 
be  cut  for  you. 

2.  Take  the  twelve  first  cards  from  the  pack,  and  place 
them  in  a  circle  thus — 

10 

11  9 

12  8 

1  7 

2  6 

3  5 


3.  Shuffle  the  major  arcana,  and  let  them  be  cut  by 
the  Inquirer,  who  will  then  choose  seven  cards. 

4.  Take  the  four  first  of  these  cards  from  the  pack, 
and  arrange  them  opposite  the  cards  placed  at  numbers 
1,  10,  7,  4,  thus— 

II. 

I.  III. 

IV. 

5.  Then  placée  the  three  others  in  a  triangle  in  the 
centre  of  the  figure,  thus — 

V.  VI. 

VII. 


THE   DIVINING  TAROT.  325 

You  thus  obtain  the  following  general  figure,  which  we 
have  already  given. 

10 
11  .     9 

II. 
12  8 

V. VI. 

1  I.        \f/        III.      7 

VII. 

2  6 

IV. 

3  5 

4 

Place  the  Inquirer  in  the  centre  of  the  figure,  unless  it 
has  been  drawn  amongst  the  other  cards.  If  the  Inquirer 
has  been  drawn  you  must  place  it  in  the  centre,  and  replace 
it  by  another  major  arcanum  chosen  by  the  person  whose 
fate  is  being  studied. 

The  12  minor  arcana  indicate  the  different  phases 
through  which  the  individual  life  will  pass,  or  the  evo- 
lution of  the  event  during  the  four  great  periods  :  Com- 
mencement, indicated  by  the  major  arcanum  I.,  which 
displays  its  character  ;  Apogee  (arc.  II.)  ;  Decline  or  Obstacle 
(arc.  III.)  ;  Fall  (arc.  IV.).  ' 

Lastly,  the  3  major  arcaua  placed  in  the  centre  indicate 
the  especial  character  of  the  horoscope  in  the  Past  (V.),  in 
the  Present  (VI.),  and  in  the  Future  (VIL). 

The  future  is  indicated  in  the  minor  arcana  by  the  cards 
placed  from  7  to  12; 

The  past  by  those  placed  from  1  to  4  ;  and  the  present 
by  those  placed  from  4  to  7. 

These  numbers  only  indicate  the  numbers  of  the  places 
occupied  by  the  arcana,  and  never  the  numbers  of  the     , 


326  THE  TAROT. 

arcana  themselves.  It  is  important  to  avoid  the  idea 
that  the  arcanum  VII.  must  always  return  to  the  place 
numbered  VII.  But  our  readers  are  sufficiently  intelligent 
to  make  any  further  insistence  upon  this  point  quite 
unnecessary. 

The  explanation  of  the  meaning  of  the  arcana  will  be 
perfectly  easy,  when  the  lessons  2  and  3  have  been  once 
read. 

Practice  will  teach  all  these  details  far  better  than  all 
the  theories  in  the  world. 


SIXTH  LESSON. 

Etteila  s  oinginal  and  unpublished  Method  of  Fortune-telling 
by  the  Tarot  (from  one  of  his  rarest  works). 

We  have  explained  a  method  which  is  original  in  a 
great  measure,  but  as  we  have  no  intention  of  monopolizing 
the  art  of  Cartomancy,  we  will  now  say  a  few  words  upon 
the  system  used  by  Etteila,  the  great  master  in  this  portion 
of  occultism. 

Etteila,  whose  real  name  was  Aliette,  was  a  hairdresser's 
apprentice  who  lived  at  the  time  of  the  French  Revolution. 
Having  accidentally  found  a  pack  of  Tarot  cards,  he  was 
interested  by  its  eccentricity  and  began  to  study  it.  After 
thirty  years  he  believed  that  he  had  discovered  the  secret 
of  this  Egyptian  book.  Unfortunately  Etteila  did  not 
possess  any  synthetic  knowledge,  and  this  ignorance  led 
him  to  the  most  erroneous  conclusions,  whilst  many  of  his 
intuitive  solutions  are  really  marvellous.  There  is  too 
much  inclination  to  calumniate  this  ardent  worker  ;  but 
we  must  recognize  the  real  truths  contained  in  his  works 
without  laying  too  much  stress  upon  the  ignorant  simplicity 
which  disfigures  them. 

However  this  may  be,  Etteila  devoted  all  his  powers 
to  fortune-telling,  and  if  his  contemporaries  may  be  believed, 


328  THE   TAROT. 

he  succeeded  wonderfully  in  his  aim.     He  therefore  be- 
came the  great  authority  for  all  fortune-tellers  by  cards. 

We  will  describe  his  system  in  some  detail,  instead  of 
alluding  to  those  used  by  his  female  successors,  who  as  a 
rule  misrepresented  without  understanding  his  explanations. 

Four  deals  are  required  before  the  Tarot  can  be  clearly 
read  according  to  this  method  :  we  will  now  enumerate 
them  one  by  one. 

First  deal  :  Shuffle  all  the  cards  of  the  Tarot,  without 
making  any  distinction  between  the  major  and  minor 
arcana.  Then  let  them  be  cut,  and  divide  your  pack  into 
three  heaps,  each  containing  26  cards.1 

26  26  26 

Take  the  central  heap  and  place  it  on  your  right — 

26  26  26    on  one  side 

to  the  right. 

.  You  have  still  two  packets  of  26  cards.  Take  them, 
shuffle  the  cards,  cut  them,  and  divide  them  into  three 
heaps,  each  containing  17  cards — 

17  17  17 

1 

One  card  will  remain,  but  you  need  not  trouble  aboutit. 

You  then  take  the  central  packet  and  put  it  on  your 
right  hand  by  the  side  of  the  one  of  26  cards  already 
there — 

17  *  M  17     26  on  one  side. 

1 

1  Etteila  quite  realized  that  the  number  26  corresponded  with  the 
divine  name  îTl/T,  the  total  being  10  +  5  +  6  +  5  =  26. 

vod  he   vau  he 


THE   DIVINING  TAROT.  329 

You  then  take  the  35  cards  which  are  not  on  one  side, 
shuffle  and  cut  them,  then  divide  them  into  three  heaps 
of  11  cards  each — 

11  11  11 

2 

Two  cards  remain,  but  these  are  of  no  consequence  ;  take 
the  central  packet  as  before  and  place  it  on  your  right  by 
the  side  of  those  already  there — 

11  *  11  11     17     26 

2 

This  ended,  you  collect  the  24  cards  that  you  have  not 
placed  on  one  side,  and  you  are  then  ready  to  explain  the 
oracle. 

*     * 

For  this  purpose  you  first  take  the  packet  of  26  cards 
from  your  right  and  lay  it  upon  the  table  card  by  card, 
going  from  right  to  left — 

26 1 

Then  take  the  packet  of  17  cards,  which  you  place 
beneath  the  others,  then  the  11  cards,  which  you  also 
spread  out  beneath  the  other  two.  You  then  obtain  the 
following  arrangement. 

Soul      26 1 

Mind  17 1 

Eody  11 1 

Waste  packet 
24 

You  then  explain  the  meaning  of  the  cards,  remember- 
ing that  the  lowest  line  of  11  refers  to  the  body,  the  centre 


330  THE  TAROT. 

one  to  the  mind,  and  lastly,  the  upper  line  of  26  cards  to 
the  soul  of  the  Inquirer. 

From  this  system  of  arrangement  Etteila  deduced  his 
subtle  arguments  upon  the  creation  of  the  Universe,  the 
Kabbalah,  and  the  Philosopher's  Stone.  But  we  need  not 
linger  over  it.  We  will  rather  pass  on  to  complete  this 
study  of  fortune-telling  by  the  Tarot. 

Second  deal:  Reshuffle  all  your  cards  (78)  and  let 
them  be  cut  for  you. 

Take  the  17  first  cards  and  arrange  them  thus — 

17 1 

Look  quickly  at  the  18th  card  (it  will  be  under  your 
hand  when  you  have  placed  the  17  first)  and  the  78th, 
which  will  be  found  beneath  the  pack. 

The  meaning  of  these  two  cards  will  tell  you  whether 
any  fluidic  sympathetic  communication  is  established 
between  the  Inquirer  and  yourself. 

You  can  then  read  the  oracles  spoken  by  the  line  of 
cards,  commencing  as  usual  on  the  right. 

When  your  line  is  read,  you  pass  the  17th  card  to  your 
right  and  the  1st  to  your  left,  then  move  the  16th  and 
the  2nd,  etc.,  and  so  on  until  the  cards  have  all  changed 
places  except  the  one  in  the  centre.  This  card  falls  on 
one  side.1 

Third  deal:  Take  up  all  your  cards,  let  them  be 
shuffled  and  cut  for  you,  then  arrange  them  as  shown  in 
the  following  figure,  according  to  the  order  of  the  numbers. 

You  thus  obtain  Etteila's  great  figure,  which  gives  the 
key  to  the  Past,  Present,  and  Future  of  the  person  about 

1  Perhaps  we  have  misunderstood  Etteila,  who  is  very  obscure  in 
his  books,  and  whom  we  are  trying  to  explain  ;  but  this  last 
operation  seems  perfectly  useless. 


THE  DIVINING  TAROT. 


331 


whose  fate  you  are  inquiring.  To  use  this  method  success- 
fully you  must  follow  this  figure  very  carefully.  The  best 
plan  is  to  draw  it  with  all  its  numbers  upon  a  table  or  a 
large  sheet  of  cardboard,  and  then  to  arrange  the  cards 
according  to  the  order  of  the  numbers. 

For  reading  the  results  of  this  figure  you  must  take  up 


the  cards  two  by  two,  the  1st  with  the  34th,  the  2nd  with 
the  35th,  etc.,  for  the  Past. 

The  23rd  with  the  45th,  the  24th  with  the  46th 

the  33rd  with  the  55th,  for  the  Present. 

The  12th  with  the  66th,  the  13th  with  the  65th 

the  22nd  with  the  56th,  for  the  Future. 

One  careful  survey  of  the  tableau  will  render  it  easily 
understood. 


332  THE  TAROT. 

Fourth  deal  :  The  fourth  deal  is  only  subsidiary. 
By  it  answers  can  be  obtained  to  any  questions  asked. 
Shuffle  all  the  cards,  let  them  be  cut,  and  then  deal  out  the 
first  seven  of  the  pack  thus — 

7... 1 

then  read  the  answer. 

The  above  system  of  fortune-telling  is  based  upon 
Etteila's  original  method.  We  have  summed  up  in  these 
few  pages,  an — on  some  points — obscure  pamphlet  by  this 
author — The  Booh  of  Thoth.  It  contains  a  portrait  of 
Etteila  and  is  very  rare,  like  the  other  works  of  this 
author.  We  must  add  that  his  method  has  never  been 
seriously  elucidated  by  any  of  his  numerous  disciples; 
and  we  believe  ourselves  to  be  one  of  the  first  to  explain 
it  upon  simple  principles. 


SEVENTH   LESSON. 

CONCLUSION. 

We  have  learnt  that  intuition  and  practice  are  necessities 
in  the  art  of  fortune-telling  by  cards,  now  that  this  art  has 
lost  its  scientific  principles  (Astronomy)  and  launched  into 
empiricism.  Having  made  this  reserve  in  our  opinion  of  its 
present  value,  we  have  studied  the  best  method  of  applying 
the  Tarot  to  this  curious  practice,  and  with  this  object  we 
have  learnt  the  meaning  of  the  minor  and  major  arcana, 
and  the  best  arrangement  of  the  cards  for  reading  them. 
With  this  method,  which  is  chiefly  the  result  of  our 
previous  studies,  we  were  anxious  to  give  one  of  the  most 
ancient  systems,  and  chose  the  one  used  by  Etteila,  the 
founder  of  Cartomancy. 

Our  readers  are  therefore  able  to  choose  whichever 
system  they  prefer,  and  whichever  they  find  most  successful. 
We  must  repeat  that  intuition  is  the  great  secret  of  all 
these  divining  arts,  and  that  fortune-telling  by  cards,  in 
water,  in  earth,  or  coffee,  is  precisely  the  same  thing. 

We  wished  to  speak  of  the  modern  divining  Tarot  to 
render  our  work  more  complete,  and  our  lady  readers 
will  thank  us  for  not  ignoring  them  in  these  abstract 
digressions. 


334  THE   TAROT. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

Mademoiselle  Lemarchand,  Recreation  de  la  Cartomancie. 
Paris,   1867,   12mo.     R. 

Julia  Orsini,  Le  Grand  Etteila,  ou  V Art  de  Tirer  les  Cartes. 
1853,  8vo.     V. 

Madame  Clement,  Le  Corbeau  Sanglant  ou  V Avenir  Dévoilé. 
R. 

The  works  of  Etteila  we  have  already  quoted. 


CHAPTER  XXI. 

APPLICATION    OF   THE   TAROT   TO   GAMES. 

The  Royal  Game  of  Human  Life  played  by  the  Egyptians. 
The  Unity  of  Games  in  the  Tarot. 

The  Royal  Game  of  Human  Life, 

ACCORDING    TO    THE  EGYPTIANS. 

1.  When  the  players  have  chosen  their  Magian,  they  also 
choose  from  amongst  the  non-players  a  man  and  a  woman, 
whom  they  name  Osiris  and  Isis. 

2.  When  commencing  a  game,  the  Magian  having  taken 
the  central  place,  the  players  settle  the  amount  of  the 
principal  fine  together  (we  will  suppose  it  to  be  one 
halfpenny),  and  a  basket  is  placed  on  the  table  to  receive 
the  money. 

3.  When  all  the  players  are  seated,  the  Magian  takes 
the  Book  of  Thoth,  i.  e.  the  pack  of  Tarot  cards,  and 
shuffles  them,  carefully  placing  their  heads  alternate  ways, 
but  without  looking  at  them,  lets  them  be  cut  bv  some 
player  on  his  left,  and  then  deals  the  cards  to  his  right, 
giving  as  many  as  he  likes,  up  to  seven,  to  each  player 
and  to  himself. 


336  THE   TAROT. 

4.  Each  player  should  notice  that  the  top  of  the  card 
(when  the  Magian  deals  it)  is  facing  his  chest  ;  it  is  there- 
fore in  that  sense,  and  according  to  the  order  in  which  the 
cards  are  dealt,  that  the  players  should  read  the  oracles 
traced  upon  it,  which  thej  refer  to  whomever  they  choose 
amongst  the  persons  in  the  house. 

5.  When  one  of  the  players  reads  an  oracle  he  assumes 
the  character  of  an  interpreter,  and  if  the  person  to  whom 
he  refers  the  oracle  will  not  give  him  a  present,  he  must 
pay  half  the  fine. 

6.  When  a  person  has  received  three  veracious  oracles 
upon  the  past,  the  present,  or  according  to  probabilities 
the  future,  and  he  refuses  to  reward  the  interpreter,  the 
players  will  hold  a  council,  and  judge  by  a  majority  of 
voices  whether  his  refusal  is  justified  or  not.  In  the  latter 
case,  the  Magian  must  pronounce  the  word  Pamenes, 
which  warns  all  the  household  that  there  is  one  person 
present  who  does  not  join  in  the  royal  game  of  the  Human 
Life,  and  then  Osiris  and  Isis  are  obliged  to  pay  for  him, 
for  when  they  accepted  these  titles,  they  undertook  to 
diffuse  peace  and  abundance  over  the  heroes  who  are 
playing. 

7.  When  one  of  the  spectators  asks  to  buy  the  hand  of 
one  of  the  players,  the  Magian  fixes  its  price,  which  is 
divided  into  three  parts  :  the  first  third  is  paid  into  the 
fine-box;  the  second  to  the  Magian;  and  the  third  to  the 
player,  who  however  can  avoid  parting  with  his  cards  by 
paying  the  two  first  thirds  of  the  price  fixed  by  the 
Magian. 

8.  When  one  of  the  spectators  has  acquired  the  hand  of 
one  of  the  players,  he  takes  with  it  all  the  player's  chances 
of  fines  and  presents. 

9.  When  one  of  the  players  cannot  read  the  oracles,  he 


APPLICATION  OF  THE  TAROT  TO   GAMES.        337 

places  his  seven  cards  on  one  side  and  pays  one-fourth  of 
the  fine. 

10.  If  the  player,  although  able  to  read  the  oracle,  cannot 
find  any  one  to  whom  he  can  refer  it,  he  must  lay  his  cards 
upon  the  table,  face  upwards,  and  read  the  meaning  that 
he  sees  in  them,  without  paying  anything.  If,  on  the  other 
hand,  he  interprets  them  badly,  according  to  the  judgment 
of  the  other  players,  the  Magian  condemns  him  to  pay 
half  the  fine. 

11.  When  the  interpreter  has  pronounced  the  oracle, 
aloud  or  privately,  and  has  received  a  present,  he  can  have 
his  seven  cards  re-shuffled  by  the  Magian,  who  will  return 
them  to  him  to  cut  ;  and  finally,  if  the  same  cards  produce 
three  presents  from  the  same  or  other  persons  to  whom 
the  oracles  have  been  uttered,  all  the  players,  except  the 
Magian,  give  the  interpreter  three  times  the  value  of  the 
fine.     This  is  the  civic  crown. 

12.  The  Magian  arranges  and  directs  the  games  as  he 
likes  ;  he  awards  the  fines  according  to  the  nature  of  the 
faults,  such  as  showing  the  cards  to  other  players,  hiding 
them  from  the  spectators,  any  indiscretion  in  the  utterance 
of  the  oracles,  reading  oracles  which  are  not  justified  by 
the  cards,  etc. 

13.  The  spectators  can  join  in  the  game  until  the 
Magian  indicates  that  it  will  soon  end,  by  saying  in  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  or  half  an  hour,  the  game  will  close. 

14.  If  the  Magian  should  forget  to  announce  the  coming 
end  of  the  game,  all  the  spectators  have  a  right  to  share 
the  fines,  which  are  divided  equally  amongst  all  the 
players,  when  the  expenses  have  been  paid. 


338  THE   TAROT. 

THE  UNITY  OF  GAMES. 

Is  it  not  true  that  man  has  displayed  more  inventive 
faculties  to  satisfy  his  vices,  than  for  anything  else  ? 
To  convince  ourselves  of  this  fact  we  need  only  look  at  the 
innumerable  inventions  destined  to  aid  him  in  losing  the 
time  which  has  been  so  parsimoniously  dealt  out  to  us  all. 

But  the  human  brain  acts  in  accordance  with  a  very 
small  number  of  laws,  and  the  inventor  cannot  escape  from 
the  effect  of  this  rule.  Look  at  the  basis  of  most  sanies, 
however  they  may  differ  in  appearance.  Is  it  not  possible 
to  find  one  single  game,  from  which  most  of  the  others  are 
derived  ? 

Follow  me  in  thought,  dear  reader,  over  one  of  the  hiodi- 
roads  of  Spain  or  Italy,  and  let  us  ask  some  old  Gypsy  to 
leave  her  camp  for  a  moment  and  tell  our  fortunes.  Look 
at  the  strange  cards  she  draws  from  her  greasy  bag  :  the 
Universe,  the  Sun,  the  Stars,  Death,  Fortune,  Love,  are 
only  a  few  of  the  names  of  these  eccentric  figures,  which 
depict  the  phases  of  our  daily  life  with  so  much  simplicity. 
What  is  this  game  ?     The  Gypsy  Tarot. 

It  is  composed  of  our  cards  with  four  additional  figures 
called  Knights,  who  are  placed  between  the  Queen  and 
the  Knave.  But  its  originality  lies  in  the  twenty-two 
supplementary  and  symbolical  figures.  Each  of  them 
represents  an  image,  a  number,  an  idea.  Court  de  Gébelin, 
a  savant  of  the  eighteenth  century,  has  shown  us  that  this 
game,  as  possessed  by  the  Gypsies,  is  of  Egyptian  origin, 
that  it  also  existed  in  China  and  India  from  the  earliest 
antiquity,  and  we  shall  see  that  it  is  the  father  of  most  of 
the  games  now  known. 

It  is  composed  of  numbers  and  figures,  which  mutually 
react  upon  and  explain  each  other.     But  if  we  separate 


APPLICATION   OF   THE   TAROT  TO   GAMES.  339 

the  figures  and  arrange  them  upon  a  paper  in  the  form  of 
a  wheel,  making  the  numbers  move  in  the  shape  of  dice, 
we  produce  the  Goose  game,  with  which  Ulysses,  according 
to  Homer,  practised  cheating  beneath  the  walls  of  Troy. 

If  we  fix  the  numbers  upon  alternate  black  and  white 
squares,  and  allow  the  lesser  figures  of  our  game  to  move 
upon  them — the  King,  Queen,  Knight,  Foolish  Man  or 
Knave,  Tower  or  ace — we  have  the  Game  of  Chess.  In  fact, 
the  primitive  chessboards  bore  numbers,  and  philosophers 
used  them  to  solve  problems  of  logic. 

If,  leaving  the  figures  on  one  side,  we  confine  ourselves 
to  the  use  of  numbers,  the  Game  of  Dice  appears,  and  if  we 
weary  of  throwing  the  dice,  we  can  mark  the  characters 
upon  horizontal  plates  and  create  the  Game  of  Dominoes. 

If  the  symbolical  figures  are  in  our  way,  we  replace 
them  by  black  and  white  draughts,  and  by  using  the 
numbers  upon  the  dice  we  invent  Backgammon,  another 
combination  of  the  Goose  game. 

Chess  degenerates  in  the  same  way  into  the  Game  of 
Draughts. 

Lastly,  our  pack  of  cards,  instead  of  first  appearing  under 
Charles  X.,  according  to  the  common  report,  is  of  far  older 
date.  Spanish  regulations  are  in  existence  dated  long 
before  this  reign,  forbidding  the  nobles  to  play  at  cards, 
and  the   Tarot  itself  is  of  very   ancient  origin. 

The  sceptres  of  the  Tarot  have  become  clubs,  the  cups 
hearts,  the  swords  spades,  and  the  pentacles  or  money 
diamonds.  We  have  also  lost  the  twenty-two  symbolical 
figures  and  the  four  knights. 

But  if  all  these  crames  are  derived  from  the  Tarot,  what 
is  its  origin  and  its  primitive  derivation  ? 

These  are  grave  questions,  which  for  their  solution 
lead    the    mind    into    dangerous    researches.      Let    me 


340  THE  TAROT. 

therefore  relate  to  you  a  certain  confidence  upon  this 
subject  which  I  received  from  a  dusty  old  manuscript, 
forgotten  in  a  corner  of  a  library.  Take  it  as  romance  or 
as  history,  whichever  you  like,  it  does  not  matter  so  long 
as  your  curiosity  is  gratified. 

Now,  let  us  transport  ourselves  in  imagination  three 
thousand  miles  away,  into  the  midst  of  the  wonderful  and 
grandiose  Egyptian  civilization,  which  archaeologists  are 
each  day  revealing  more  fully  to  our  century. 

Let  us  enter  one  of  those  cities,  of  which  Paris  would 
form  but  one  district,  passing  through  the  defensive  out- 
works guarded  by  a  well-equipped  body  of  soldiers,  and 
glide  amongst  the  inhabitants,  who  are  as  numerous  and 
as  busy  as  those  of  our  greatest  cities. 

On  all  sides  immense  monuments  of  strange  architecture 
rise  to  enormous  heights  ;  the  terraces  of  rich  houses 
indicate  the  first  steps  of  a  gigantic  staircase,  formed  by 
the  palaces  and  temples,  and  dominated  by  the  silent 
residence  of  the  supreme  head  of  the  Empire. 

The  great  cities  are  everywhere  fortified,  the  Nile  is 
restrained  by  moles,  and  enormous  reservoirs  are  ready  to 
receive  its  surplus  waters,  and  thus  transform  terrible 
inundations  into  beneficent  irrigation. 

All  this  involves  science  and  savants,  but  where  are 
they  ? 

At  this  epoch  science  and  religion  were  blended  in  a 
single  study,  and  all  the  men  of  science,  engineers,  doctors, 
architects,  superior  officers,  scribes,  etc.,  were  called  priests 
or  Initiates.  We  must  not  confuse  the  priest  of  antiquity 
with  the  word  taken  in  the  modern  sense,  or  we  shall  fall 
into  many  errors,  amongst  others  that  of  believing  that 
Egypt  was  given  over  to  clerical  despotism  in  its  worst 
form. 


APPLICATION   OF   THE   TAROT   TO   GAMES.        341 

Instruction  of  every  kind  was  given  in  the  temples  in 
various  degrees,  according  to  methods  perfectly  established, 
and,  at  that  epoch,  imitated  in  every  country  in  the  world. 

The  highest  instruction  which  man  can  acquire  was 
given  in  the  great  temple  of  Egypt,  and  it  was  there  that 
the  great  reformers  of  the  future  completed  their  studies  : 
Orpheus,  Lycurgus,  Pythagoras,  and  Moses  amongst  many 
others. 

Astronomy  was  one  of  the  sciences  which  became  the 
object  of  constant  investigation.  We  now  know  through 
Pythagoras,  who  has  perpetuated  the  knowledge  of  the 
wise  men  of  Egypt,  that  they  were  acquainted  with  the 
movement  of  the  earth  round  the  sun,  as  well  as  with  the 
position  of  the  latter  in  relation  to  its  satellite  planets. 
Many  of  the  mythological  stories  relate  to  these  mysteries 
and  the  wise  men  of  the  epoch,  that  is  to  say,  the  priests 
taught  astronomy  to  their  disciples,  by  means  of  small 
cards,  which  represented  the  months,  seasons,  signs  of  the 
zodiac,  planets,  sun,  etc.,  etc.  In  this  way  they  imprinted 
upon  the  imagination  of  the  students  the  data  which  later 
on  they  verified  in  nature. 

A  time  followed  when  Egypt,  no  longer  able  to  struggle 
against  her  invaders,  prepared  to  die  honourably.  Then 
the  Egyptian  savants  (at  least  so  my  mysterious  informant 
asserts)  held  a  great  assembly  to  arrange  how  the  know- 
ledge, that  until  that  date  had  been  confined  to  men 
judged  worthy  to  receive  it,  should  be  saved  from 
destruction. 

At  first  they  thought  of  confiding  these  secrets  to 
virtuous  men  secretlv  recruited  bv  the  Initiates  them- 
selves,  who  would  transmit  them  from  generation  to 
generation.  But  one  priest,  observing  that  virtue  is  a 
most  fragile  thins:,  and  most  difficult  to  find,  at  all  events 


342  THE   TAKOT. 

in  a  continuous  line,  proposed  to  confide  the  scientific 
traditions  to  vice. 

The  latter,  he  said,  would  never  fail  completely,  and 
through  it  we  are  sure  of  a  long  and  durable  preservation 
of  our  principles. 

This  opinion  was  evidently  adopted,  and  the  game 
chosen  as  a  vice  wTas  preferred.  The  small  plates  were 
then  engraved  with  the  mysterious  figures  which  formerly 
taught  the  most  important  scientific  secrets,  and  since 
then  the  players  have  transmitted  this  Tarot  from  gener- 
ation to  generation,  far  better  than  the  most  virtuous  men 
upon  earth  would  have  done. 

Such  is  the  story  or  the  history  confided  to  me  by  this 
old  manuscript,  upon  the  origin  of  the  father  of  our  great 
games,  and  I  am  very  glad  that  it  provided  me  with  the 
means  of  proving  my  perhaps  paradoxical  assertion  of 
their  original  unity. 


CHAPTER  XXII. 

CONCLUSION. 

Having  reached  the  end  of  our  journey  we  must  cast 
one  rapid  glance  over  the  road  we  have  followed,  in  order 
to  give  some  account  of  the  scope  of  our  work. 

Seeing  that  materialistic  science  was  giving  way,  in 
spite  of  the  desperate  efforts  of  its  partisans,  under  the 
irresistible  pressure  of  the  new  era,  the  impotence  of 
purely  analytical  methods  forced  itself  upon  us,  and  we 
were  led  to  search  for  the  possible  basis  of  a  synthesis 
which  each  day  renders  more  indispensable. 

At  this  moment,  the  ancient  wisdom  revealed  itself 
to  our  investigations,  and  we  find  that  it  contains  this 
synthetic  method  as  the  immutable  basis  of  all  its 
scientific,  religious,  and  social  discoveries. 

The  secret  societies  entrusted  with  the  transmission  of 
this  sacred  deposit  have  lost  its  key  as  well  as  its  ritual  ; 
the  nomad  Gypsies  and  the  Jews  only  have  guarded  their 
Bibles  intact  throughout  the  centuries  :  the  latter  had  the 
Sepher  of  Moses,  the  former  the  Tarot  attributed  to  Thoth 
Hermes  Trismegistus,  the  triple  hierarchic  University  of 
ancient  Egypt.1 

1  Consult  Saint-Yves  d'Alveydre,  Mission  des  Juifs. 


344  THE   TAROT. 

The  Tarot  appeared  to  us  as  the  Egyptian  translation  of 
the  book  of  initiation,  starting  as  the  now  missing  key 
to  Freemasonry  and   the  whole  occult  science. 

How  could  we  decipher  this  series  of  hieroglyphics  ? 
How  discover  the  mysterious  grouping  of  these  plates, 
now  become  the  accessory  of  gamblers  ? 

Wronski  teaches  us  that  the  faculty  to  conceive  implies 
the  faculty  to  execute.  Strong  in  this  truth,  we  have 
questioned  antiquity.  Its  Sphinxes,  dumb  to  the  profane, 
have  spoken,  its  old  temples  have  unveiled  their  mysteries, 
its  Initiates  have  re-awakened  in  answer  to  our  call  :  four 
mysterious  letters  have  been  revealed  to  us — 

Yod  He  Vau  He 

The  sacred  word,  which  shines  above  every  initiation,  the 
object  of  the  veneration  and  respect  of  all  the  sages. 

The  study  of  the  Tarot  has  shown  us  that  it  only 
expresses  the  combinations  of  IEVE.  However,  since  we 
must  in  these  questions  guard  ourselves  above  all  things 
from  leaving  too  much  scope  to  the  imagination,  we  have 
chosen  as  the  starting-point  for  our  studies  a  fixed 
principle,  as  basis  to  these  immutable  combinations,  the 
sole  guarantee   against  all  possible  error  :  the  number. 

We  then  approached  the  symbol,  and  there  we  again 
encountered  new  difficulties.  The  history  of  the  Tarot 
has  shown  us  that  its  figures  have  often  changed  in  pass- 
ing through  the  hands  of  various  peoples,  and  through 
different  epochs,  although  its  meaning  has  been  preserved 
in  all  times  and  in  all  places. 

It  was  therefore  necessary  to  find  for  the  symbols  a 
principle  as  fixed  and  immutable  in  its  combinations  as 
the  number.     The  study  of  the  origin  of  the  letters  used 


CONCLUSION.  345 

to  inscribe  human  languages  led  us  back  to  the  determin- 
ation of  the  sixteen  primitive  hieroglyphic  signs,  the 
source  of  the  first  alphabets.  The  22  Hebrew  letters 
immediately  derived  from  these  signs  furnished  us  with 
this  indispensable  basis  to  all  serious  researches,  as 
definitely  fixed  for  the  symbol,  as  the  numbers  were  for 
the  whole  Tarot.  We  thus  had  a  sure  guide,  which 
rendered  error  still  more  unlikely. 

Thanks  to  the  application  of  these  principles,  exact, 
although  very  general,  information  was  furnished  to  us 
upon  Theogony,  Androgony,  and  Cosmogony,  and  we  could 
at  last  recapitulate  the  symbolism  of  the  Tarot  in  a  very 
interesting  tableau. 

We  then  wished  to  show  that  the  Tarot  was  really  the 
general  key  which  we  had  pronounced  it  to  be.  A  few 
applications  proved  the  fact.  Astronomy  is  unquestion- 
ably the  most  important  amongst  them  through  its  fixed 
principles.  Therefore,  when  we  wish  to  discover  how  an 
evolution  can  advance,  and  we  wander  in  the  labyrinth 
of  inexactitude,  Astronomy  shows  us  how  the  evolution 
of  the  sun  progresses,  and  that  knowledge  gives  us  the 
key  to  every  possible  evolution. 

The  gigantic  labours  of  Dupuis  were  fruitless,  because 
he  did  not  understand  that  the  solar  Myth  was  only  a 
representation  of  the  general  law  of  evolution,  and  not 
that  of  the  especial  evolution  of  the  sun.  The  method 
of  occult  science  is  neither  induction  nor  deduction,  but 
analogy,  an  unknown  method  at  the  present  date  which 
the  Tarot  reveals  to  us  in  all  its  splendour. 

Afterwards  we  have  made  other  applications  of  it,  and 
could  have  made  still  more  ;  shown  the  key  of  Philosophy, 
of  the  Holy  Kabbalah,  of  Theosophy,  of  the  Physiology 
of  Man  and  of  the  Universe  in  the  Tarot  ;  but  we  have 


346  THE  TAROT. 

restricted  ourselves  to  giving  the  key,  and  to  showing  the 
way  to  use  it  by  some  examples. 

We  were  unwilling  to  exceed  the  strict  limits  of  our 
engagement. 

Such  as  it  is,  our  work  still  contains  some  imperfections 
which  we  would  willingly  efface.  We  are  under  no 
illusions  on  this  point,  and  time  alone  can  remedy  it. 
But  we  would  draw  attention  to  the  aim  which  is  visible 
throughout  its  pages  ;  the  application  of  the  most  exact 
methods  possible  to  occult  science. 

Through  the  modern  exact  sciences  we  have  reached 
the  study  of  occultism,  and  starting  ourselves  from 
materialism,  of  which  we  were  one  of  the  most  ardent 
disciples,  we  felt  the  necessity  of  advancing  further.  But 
we  had  retained  one  trace  of  our  early  affections,  the 
taste  for  method,  and  it  is  the  absence  of  this  method 
which  spoils  occult  science.  Louis  Lucas  had  clearly 
seen  that  physics  must  advance  by  the  side  of  meta- 
physics to  serve  as  its  basis  :  in  the  same  way  we  have 
endeavoured  to  place  fixed  principles,  such  as  numbers 
and  the  Hebrew  letters,  side  by  side  with  the  metaphysical 
data,  like  the  symbols  or  abstract  conceptions. 

Occultists  as  a  rule  are  lost  through  this  lack  of  pre- 
cision. We  have  made  every  effort  to  avoid  this  stumbling- 
block,  without  however  asserting  that  we  have  succeeded. 
An  author  is  not  qualified  to  judge  his  own  work. 

Be  this  as  it  may,  we  have  been  frequently  obliged  to 
speak  of  occult  science  without  the  leisure  to  enter  into 
these  explanatory  details — this  is  the  reason  we  addressed 
our  book 

To  Initiates. 


2 


< 


; 

u 

1  — J 

y 

VI 

-J 

1  1 

o 

ro 

in 

=c 

—  1 

; 


s    0    d    0 


*Hn0 

L  m 

? 

L 

f 

L 

8 

L 

"«"-d/ 

uovvc 

w 


(\ 


0 


^/ 


THE    I 

EVE   mrr\ 

k iii    Ski    ro  i  ' -in  ri  i    i  . 

PAPUS. 


CONCLUSION.  347 

An  Initiate  is  one  who  possesses  the  elements  of 
occultism,  and  who  is  therefore  familiar  with  a  whole 
vocabulary,  which  may  well  alarm  a  man  of  the  world  ; 
this  is  our  excuse  for  words  which  may  sound  pretentious 
to  some  minds,  and  this  is  why  we  were  anxious  to  express 
our  ideas  quite  clearly. 

Still,  since  it  is  customary  for  the  Tarot  to  be  used  for 
fortune-telling,  we  have  touched  upon  this  subject,  and 
rendered  it  as  attractive  as  possible.  We  have  tried 
to  simplify  the  systems  used,  so  that  a  woman  of  even 
little  intelligence  can  easily  and  with  little  exercise  of 
memory  amuse  herself  with  this  art. 

But  since  our  own  system  may  not  please  all  the 
partisans  of  Cartomancy,  we  have  summed  up  the  process 
of  the  great  master  Mteila,  so  that,  even  in  this  purely 
empiric  region,  we  have  tried  to  introduce  as  much 
scientific  exactitude  as  possible. 

We  hope  that  this  recapitulation  of  the  efforts  of 
several  years  may  prove  useful  to  occultism,  and  to  its 
revival,  which  becomes  daily  more  pronounced.  This  is 
the  aim  which  we  have  kept  in.  view.  May  the  social 
disorders  which  are  preparing  give  rise  to  an  era  of  peace 
and  harmony  amongst  the  now  divided  nations,  and  may 
the  knowledge  of  these  mysteries  overthrow  European 
Ceesarism  in  all  its  forms  !  This  should  be  your  aim, 
Kabbalists,  Theosophists,  Martinists,  Rosicrucians,  and 
Freemasons  !  On  this  point  believe  the  humble  disciple 
of  your  doctrines,  who  will  be  only  too  happy  if  his  work 
has  retained  one  feeble  ray  of  the  Eternal  and  Holy 
Truth. 


! 
! 


INDEX. 


Adam,  111,  294 

Addition,  theosophic,  27 

Air,  189 

Alchemists,  5 

Aleph,  105 

Alphabet,  Hebrew,  93 — 5 

Amen,  203 

Androgony,  210 

Animal.  187 

Arabs,  5 

Arcana,  major,  51—60,  61—67,  316 

Arcana,  minor,  35—50,  61—67,  307 

Astronomical  Tarot,  233 

Atlantides,  8 

Attraction,  universal,  131 

Authority,  125,  126 

Authors  who   have  spoken   of  the 

Tarot,  297 
Axe,  hieroglyphic,  181 

Balance,  sign  of  the  Zodiac,  152 

Barlet,  C. ,  253 

Beauty,  131 

Beth,  112 

Bible,  Christian,  7 

—  Freemason,  7 

—  Greek,  7 

—  Hindu,  7 

—  Jewish,  7 

■ —    Roman,  7 
Binah,  118,  205 
Blood,  228 
Body,  180 

Body,  material,  176,  177 
Bologna,  Tarot  of,  85 
Brahma,  75,  146,  195,  204 

Cards,  fortune-telling  by,  305 

Chaos,  176 

Chariot,  the,  135 

Charity,  131,  153 

China,  103 

Chinese  Tarot,  87 

Chocmah,  114,  205 

Clubs,  36 

Colours,  44 


Conclusion,  343 

Cosmogony,  216 

Courage,  150 

Creator,  74,  109 

Creeds,  6 

Cross,  symbol  of  the,  34,  44 

■ —     episcopal,  44 
Cups,  36,  44,  312 

Daleth,  119 
Day,  231 
Death,  158,  159 
Decan,  236 
Destiny,  101 
Devil,  164,  165 
Diamonds,  36 
Divine  world,  41 
Divining  Tarot,  301 

Earth,  189 

Elements,  the,  180,  181 

Element,  Being,  101,  102 

—  Neuter,  101,  102 

—  Wisdom,  101,  102 
Emperor,  120 

Empress,  116 

En  Soph,  205 

Epagomene,  235 

Esoterism,  26 

Etteila,  88,  291,  327 

Eve,  114,  240 

Existence,  elementary,  140,  141 

Experience,  153,  154 

Eye,  127,  131 

Faith,  126 

Fall,  the,  169,  170 

Fatality,  166,  167 

Father,  75,  136,  137 

Figuration  of  the  sacred  word,  23 

Figures,  37—41 

Fire,  189 

Fo-hi,  trigram  of,  103 

Foolish  man,  the,  185,  186 

Force,  153,  154,  160 

Forces,  the  physical,  227 


350 


INDEX. 


Fortune,  wheel  of,  145 
Four,  32,  37 
Freemasons,  5 
Friday,  118 

Game,  royal,  of  human  life,  335 

Games,  unity  of,  338 

Generation,  116 

German  Tarot,  89 

Gimel,  115 

Gnostics,  5 

God,  102,  109,  111 

Guaita  (Stanislas  de),  the  kabbalistic 

Tarot,  299 
Gypsies,  8,  239 

Hanged  man,  151 

He,  21,  38,  66,  123 

He,  second,  22,  24  note,  38 

Hearts,  36 

Hermit,  142 

Hesiod,  104 

Hieroglyphics,  91 

Hindu  Tarots,  86 

Hiram,  legend  of,  7,  10 

— -       heart  of,  11 

—       tomb  of,  10 
Holy  Spirit,  75,  117,  118 
Hope,  173 
Horns,  75,  117,  195 
Host,  44 
Human  world,  41,  48,  118 

Immortality,  173 
Initiates,  4,  6,  124 
Initiative  Tarot,  253 
Innervation,  186,  187 
Inri,  10,  11 
Instinct,  186,  187 
Intellectuality,  41 
Intelligence,  125,  126 
Inventors.  107 
Isis,  75,  113,  114,  195 

Jakin,  106 

January,  176 

Judgment,  184 

Juggler,  106 

Juno,  195 

Jupiter,  120,  121,  195 

Justice,  138—141 

Kabbalah,  17,  32,  144 


Kadosh,  10 

Kaph,  148 

Karma  of  the  Hindus,  147 

Kether,  111,  205 

King,  37 

Kingdoms       (animal,       vegetable, 

mineral),  192 
Knave,  37 
Knight,  37 
Kosmos,  118 

Lamed,  151 

Liberty,  150 

Life,  123—126,  150,  163,  180,  231 

Light,  astral,  136,  137 

Lightning-struck  tower,  168 

Lingam,  124 

Love,  130,  131 

Lovers,  128 

Macrocosm,  108 

Man,  102,  103,  105,  111,  113,  155 

Mantegna  pack,  84 

Materialism  (approaching  end),  3 

Material  world,  43,  48 

Matter,  215,  227 

Mem,  158 

Mercury,  171 

Microcosm,  105,  108 

Mineral  kingdom,  180,  181 

Monday,  114 

Months,  233,  235 

Moon,  114,  175 

Moses,  7,  8 

Mother,  140,  141 

Motion,  innate,  184 

Motion,  of  relative  duration,   186, 

187 
Mysteries,  4 

Nahash,  166,  167 
Natura  naturans,  111,  206 
Natura  naturata,  114,  207 
Nature  balanced,  117 
Nizah,  141 
Numbers,  26 

—  law  of  the  evolution  of,  29 
— -         signification  of,  30 

—  affinities  of,  33 
Numbers  (of  the  minor  arcana),  38 
Nun,  161 

Nutrition,  180,  181 


INDEX. 


351 


Occult  science,  4 

Operations  upon  numbers,  18,  20 

Osiris,  75,  114,  116,  195,  203 

Parabrahm,  204 

Pe,  171 

Pechad,  126; 

Pentacles,  36,  47—49,  52,  251,  314 

People,  the,  8,  107 

Planets,  238 

Pope,  125 

Power,  122 

Power,  magic,  147 

Priestess,  High,  112 

Prism,  226 

Providence,  101 

Prudence,  144 

Ptah,  203 

Pythagoras,  tetractys  of,  33 

Queen,  37 

Ra,  203 

Reduction,  theosophic,  27 
Religion,  126 
Reproduction,  41,  192 
Resh,  182 

Respiration,  183,  184 
Roof,  176 

Rosicrucians,  5,  10,  298 
Rota,  9 

Samedi,  164 

Saturn,  184 

Savants,  107 

Sceptres,  36,  311 

Sepher  Bereschit,  7 

Septenaries,     54 — 58,    61 — 65,    75, 

99,  132,  133 
Shin,  185 

Signs,  primitive,  91 
Siva,  75,  146,  195,  203 
Societies,  secret,  4 
Son,  75 

Soul  of  the  Universe,  122 
Spades,  36 
Speech,  112,  171 
Star,  seventeenth  card,  171 
Stars  of  Solomon,  162 
Sun,  179 
Swords,  36,  44,  107,  313 


Symbols,  11 
Synthesis,  3 

Table  of  the  twelve  hours  of  the 
Initiation,  by  Barlet,  273 

Table  indicating  the  meaning  of 
the  twenty-two  major  arcana,  76, 
220,  221 

Tarot  of  Florence,  85 

Tau,  188 

Temperance,  162,  163 

Templars,  5 

Ten,  38 

Ternaries,  53 

Teth,  142 

Tetractys  of  Pythagoras,  33 

Theogony,  194 

Theosophite  Society,  5 

Thoth,  book  of,V9,  292 

Three,  30,  38 

Throat, 

Thummim,  136 

Thursday,  122 

Tipheroth,  131 

Transformer,  72 

Tuesday,  150 

Two,  30,  38 

Tzaddi,  174 

Universe,  102,  111,  177 
Urim,  136 

Vau,  21,  66,  127 
Vegetable  kingdom,  184 
Venetian  Tarot,  85 
Venus  Urania,  116,  175 
Virgin,  146 

Vishnu,  75,  146,  195,  204 
Vital  force,  41 
Vulcan,  195 

Watillaux,  89 

Wednesday,  173 

Will,  102 

Wirth,  89,  90,  242—251,  299 

Womb,  119,  188 

Word,  32 

World,  visible,  103,  169,  170 

Worlds,  43,  48 

Zain,  135,  168 


ALPHABETIC   TABLE 

OF    THE 

AUTHORS  AND  PEINCIPAL  WORKS  QUOTED. 


Agrippa. — La  Philosophic  Occulte,   La  Haye,  1727.      2  vols.  8vo. 
(Bib.  Nat.,  Z.  1983,  A.2) 

Apocalypse  ...         ...         ...         ...         ...         ...         7 

Amaravella. — A  theosophic  writer  known  by  his  fine  works  in  Le 
Lotus,  and  in  the  Revue  Tlxéosophiquc. 

Apollonius  of  Tyana.— A  great    initiate  and  thaumaturge,  con- 
temporary with  Christ         ...  ...  ...  ...  ...         265,  sqq. 

Arnould  (Arthur). — President  of  the  Theosophite  Society  Hermes, 
the  French  branch  of  the  Theosophite  Society  of  Adyar  (Madras). 

Abbema  (Louise). 

Adam  (Mme.  Juliette). 

Adhémar,  D'  (Countess  Gaston). 

Barrois. — Dactylologie    oit   Langage    Primitif,    Paris,    1850,    4to. 
(Bib.  Nat.,  X.  4,679.) 
—     Eléments  Carlovingiens,  Paris,  1854,  4to.  (Bib.  Nat.,  Z.) 

Blavatsky  (EL  P.)— Isis  Unveiled,  New  York,  1884  300 

Boiteau. — Les  Cartes  à  jouer  et  la  Cartomancie,  Paris,  1854,  4to. 

Boehme   (Jacob). — Les    Trois  Principes,   translated   by   Claude   de 
Saint-Martin. 

Bertrand  (le  F .  • .). — Venerable  de  la  L .  * .  La  Renaissance,  a  con- 
ference in  defence  of  occult  symbolism  in  the  F  .  * .  M .  * . 

Barlet  (Ch.). — Editor  of  the  Lnitiation.     The  author  of  the  most 

learned  works  that  France  possesses  upon  Occult  Science  15,  299 

Court  de  Gébélin. — Le  Monde  Primitif,  9  vols.,  4to.,  1773 — 1783. 

Caillié  (René). — Dieu  et  la  Création,  Paris  (Carré),  3  vols.,  8vo., 
1886. 

Chatto. — Facts  and  Speculations  upon  the  Origin  and  History  of 
Playing  Cards  in  Europe,  London,  1848,  8vo. 

Dée  (Jean). — Monas  Hieroglyphica  (in  Thcatrum  Chcmimum),  1560. 

Ely  Star  (2>s  Mystères  de  I  Horoscope,  18mo.,  Dentu,  1884  ...     300 

Etteila. — Works  by. 

Franck  (A.) — La  Kabbalah,  Paris,  Hachette,  1889,  8vo. 

Fabre  d'Olivet. — Les  Vers  dorés  de  Pythagore,  Paris,  8vo.,  1816  ; 
La  Langue  Hébraïque  restituée,  1825,  4to.,  Paris.  (Fundamental 
works  of  one  of  the  greatest  contemporary  masters  of  occult 
science.  ) 

Guaita  (Stanilas  de). — Au  seuil  du  Mystère,  Paris,  1886,  8vo.,  2nd 

enlarged  edition,  1889  294 


354         AUTHORS  AND  PRINCIPAL  WORKS  QUOTED. 

PAGE 

Gary  (See  Polti). 

Goyard  (Dr.). — Former  President  of  the  Vegetarian  Society,  author 

of  several  works  upon  occultism. 
Goudeau  (Emile). 
Hartmann. — Works  by. 

Hermes  Trismegistus   ...         ...         ...         ...         9 

Holmes  (Augusta). 

Homer.  —  The  Odyssey     ...         ...         ...         ...         ...         ...         ...         7 

Hesiod.  —  Op.  et  Dies       ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  104 

Kircher  (the  R.   F.   Jesuit). — Œdipus   ^Egyptiacus,  3   vols.,  fol., 

Rome,  1622. 
Kabbala  Denud ata.— Frankfort,  1764.  2  vols.,  4to.,  (Bib.  Nat., 

A.  969). 
Koran,  the. 
Levi  (Eliphas,  pseudonym  of  the  Abbé  Constant). — Dogme  et  Rituel 

de  la  Haute  Magie,  Paris,  2  vols.,  8vo.  ;  Histoire  de  la  Magie, 

8vo.,   Paris  ;  La  Clef  des  grands  Mystères,  8vo.,  Paris  (Funda- 
mental works)  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...     299 

Lena  in. — La  Science  Kabbalistique,  Amiens,   1823,  8vo.     (A  good 

summary.  ) 
Lacuria  (P.  F.  G.  ). — Harmonies  de  l'Être  exprimées  par  les  nombres, 

Paris,  1847,  8vo. ,  2  vols.     (Fundamental  work.) 
Lejay  (Julien). — Editor  of  the  Initiation.     Has  made  an  application 

of  occult  synthesis  to  Sociology. 
Lacour. — Les  Œloïm  ou  dieux  de  Moise,  Paris,  1825,  8vo.,  2  vols. 
Louis    Lucas. — La    Chimie   Nouvelle,    1854,    8vo.  ;    La    Médecine 

Nouvelle,  1863,  2  vols.,  8vo.  ;  Le  Roman  Alchimique,  1853,  8vo. 

(Fundamental  works)  ...  ...  ...         ...  .  .         ...     226 

Monti  ère  (George). — Chief  Editor  of  the  Revue  V Initiation. 

Moses. — Le  Sepher  Bereschit  (Genesis). 

Merlin. — Origine   des   cartes  a  jouer,  recherches   nouvelles   sur  les 

na'ibis,  les  tarots  et  sur  les  autres  espèces  de  cartes,  Paris,  4to., 

1869. 
Manoel  de  Grandfort. 
Morsier  (Emilie  de). 
Nus    (Eugène)  — Philosopher,    the    author   of    several   works  upon 

Spiritualism.     Les  Grands  Mystères,  Paris,  librarie  des  Sciences, 

psychologiques,  8vo. 
Olcott  (Colonel). — President  of  the  Theosophite  Society  of  Adyar, 

which  now  includes  more  than  175  branches  in  different  parts 

of  the  world. 
Papus.  —  Traité  Elémentaire  de  Science  Occulte,  Paris,  1887,  18mo. 

(4th  edit.). 
Paracelsus. — Works  by. 

Postel  (Guillaume). — La  Clef  des  Choses  Cachées  (Latin),  12mo.      ...     297 
Polti    and    Gary. — La   Tltéorie    des    Tempéraments,   1889,    18mo. 

(Carré,  publisher.) 
Péladan  (Joséphin).—  La  décadence  Latine,  Ethopœia,  in  7  vols. 

(Edinger,  Paris)         '      299 

Poirel,  E. — Occultist,  editor  of  the  Tarot  de  ÎVirth,  and  of  several 

other  reproductions  deduced  from  occult  science  ...         ...     300 

Rabelais  (epigraph) ...         3 


AUTHORS  AND  PRINCIPAL  WORKS  QUOTED.        355 

PAGE 

Ragon. — Orthodoxie  Maçonnique,   followed    by   Maçonnerie    Occulte 
and  the  Initiation  Hermitique. 

—  Maçonnerie  Occulte,  with  a  Treatise  on  the  Planets,  8vo. 

—  La  Messe  et  ses  Mystères,  18mo.,  Paris,  1863. 
Roca  (Abbé). — Le  Monde  Nouveau,  1889,  8vo.,  Paris. 

Rouxel. — The  author  of  important  works  upon  Magnetism,  published 

in  the  Initiation. 
Saint  Martin  (Louis  Claude  de). — Tableau  naturel  des  Rapports 

qui  existent   entre   Dieu,   V Homme  et  V Univers,   2  vols.,  8vo. , 

Edinburgh,  1782        298 

Sepher   Yetzirah,   the  (translation  by  Papus),   Paris,  1888,  8vo. 

(Carré). 
Schopenhauer. — First  principles. 
Schuré. — Editor  of  the  Revue  des  Deux  Mondes.    Has  just  published 

a  fine  study  upon  esoterism,  Les  grands  Initiés  (Perrin,  editor). 
Simon.- — La  Cité  Chinoise,  18mo.,  1884. 

Sivry  (Ch.de)       300 

Sinnet. — Esoteric  Buddhism,  1884,  18mo. 

Trithemus  (1462 — 1516). — A  remarkably  learned  man,  the  master 

of  Cornelius  Agrippa. 
Vaillant  (J.  A.) — Les  Rames,  histoire  vraie  da  vrais  Bohémiens, 

Paris,  1850,  8vo 298 

Viegil.— The  JEneid       7 

Vedas,  the. 

Van  Helmont  (Mercure). — Principia  Philosophiœ  antiquissimœ  et 

recentissimœ,    Amsterdam,    1690.       Mercury   Van   Helmont    is 

reputed  to  have  initiated  Leibnitz. 
"Weber  (Louis  Zenon). — Author  of  important  philosophical  works 

published  in  the  Initiation  ...  ...  ...  ...         ...  ...     178 

"Wirth  (Oswald). — The  Astronomical  Tarot  (in  the  course  of  work). 

See  Index. 
"Wronski  (Hoené).—  Le  Messianism  ou  Réforme  Absolue  du  Savoir 

Humain,  Paris,  1825,  3  vols.,  small  folio.   See  the  complementary 

list  of  his  numerous  works  in  Occultism  Contemporain  by  Papus. 
Wolska  (A.  de). 
Yves  d'Alveydre  (Saint).—  La  Mission  des  Juifs,  Paris,  1884,  large 

8vo.  of  more  than  1000  pp.     Alcan  Levy,  publisher.     (Funda- 
mental work.  ) 


Richard  Clay  &  Sons,  Limited, 
London  &  Bung  a  v. 


PAPUS 


I 


Date  Due 

All  library  items  are  subject  to  recall  3  weeks  from 
the  original  date  stamped. 


:lfT    1  i, 


«fl 


4-U12 


OCT  2  5  200; 


NOV  2  0  ?PM 


OEC'O  3  2007 


NUV  3  0  2007 


- 


Brigham  Young  University 


3  1197  00273  9123 


^ 


1*1 


